VERMICELLI SOUP.

Put a shin of veal, one onion, two carrots, two turnips, and a little
salt, into four quarts of water. Boil this three hours; add two cups
of vermicelli, and boil it an hour and a half longer. Before serving
take out the bone and vegetable.





JENNY LIND'S SOUP.

The following soup is stated by Miss Bremer, to be the soup constantly
served to Mademoiselle Jenny Lind, as prepared by her own cook. The
sago and eggs were found by her soothing to the chest, and beneficial
to the voice. Wash a quarter of a pound of best pearl sago thoroughly,
then stew it quite tender and very 


View page [32]
thick in water or thick broth; (it will require nearly or quite a
quart of liquid, which should be poured to it cold and heated slowly;)
then mix gradually with it a pint of good boiling cream or milk, and
the yolks of four fresh eggs, and mingle the whole carefully with two
quarts of strong veal or beef stock, which should always be kept ready
boiling. Serve immediately.





GERMAN PANCAKE SOUP.

Make a batter with a pound of flour, a little salt, half a pint of
milk; stir well, and add two eggs beaten; it should be of the
consistency of cream. Make this into pancakes, fried very pale
yellow. As each one is fried, lay it on a board and double over
once. Roll each slightly, and cut into strips half an inch wide, and
put them into the soup tureen and pour good stock, well seasoned and
strained, over them. Serve hot.





SOUP JARDINIERE.

Put a bouquet of finely cut vegetables, consisting of celery, a
carrot, an onion, tomatoes,--two if fresh, two table-spoonfuls if
canned,--a leek, and a bunch of parsley, in a stew pan, with two
ounces of butter, pepper, salt, and cover down for nearly an hour;
when cooked soft in the butter add a quart or more of broth, and two
table-spoonfuls of cold jelly gravy, and leave the whole to simmer
together an hour longer, or until dinner time. During the process of
coming to a boil, the butter or grease rising to the top should be
skimmed off and preserved, to be clarified for further use.





AN INEXPENSIVE SOUP.

Take three pounds of the neck of beef, one cow heel, carrots and
turnips, half a head of celery, one bunch of tied up sweet herbs, four
onions browned, one pint of peas; put together into three quarts of
water and, after boiling some hours, strain through a sieve. The best
part of the cow heel may be cut in square pieces and served up in the
soup.





BAKED SOUP.

When baking is more convenient, in four quarts of water put 


View page [33]
one pound of trimmings or odd pieces of meat, two onions, and two
sliced carrots, two ounces of rice or bits of bread, one pint of split
peas, pepper and salt. Put the whole into a close jar, and bake slowly
for four hours. This will make a good, wholesome food for a large
family.





HOTCH POTCH.

Put a pint of peas into a quart of water; boil them until they are so
tender as easily to be pulped through a sieve. Take of the leanest end
of a loin of mutton three pounds, cut it into chops, put it into a
saucepan with a gallon of water, four carrots, four turnips, cut in
small pieces; season with pepper and salt. Boil until all the
vegetables are quite tender; put in the pulped peas a head of celery
and a sliced onion. Boil fifteen minutes, and serve.





SCOTCH MUTTON BROTH.

Take the scrag end of a large sized neck of mutton, reserving the best
half for cutlets, put it into a stewpan and boil it with three quarts
of water, half a pint of Scotch barley, three leeks, three onions, a
little parsley and thyme. Skim it, and after it has boiled up, let it
stand on the top of the stove and simmer for two hours, then skim
again, and if it is too thick with barley add half a pint of boiling
water, three or four turnips, a head of celery, and two carrots cut in
pieces; after which, let it simmer slowly an hour and a half more; the
barley should be almost wholly dissolved. The meat may be cut in
pieces and served with the broth or served separately.





BROTH FOR AN INVALID.

Cut the chicken, veal, mutton or beef, up into pieces, and put into a
jar with a cover; fill with water, adding a little salt; close down
tight, and let it simmer all day on the stove or range; strain, and
season to taste. This method extracts all the juices and strength of
the meat, and is infinitely better than boiling.







View page [34]
> MEATS.



TO BOIL BEEF.

If the beef is very salt put it in cold water; if it is only slightly
corned put it in boiling water, and let it cook very slowly. This will
render it quite as tender as if put into cold water, and at the same
time all the juices of the meat will be retained. Boil until tender,
but not until ragged, so that the meat will cut clean and clear, when
cold.


Never buy poor, cheap pieces of corned beef, they are full of bone and
gristle; there is no satisfaction in eating from them, and they prove
the most costly in the end.


Fresh beef should never be boiled plain, unless it is boiled down for
soup; it may be stewed, or cooked alamode, or stuffed and baked,
provided the piece is not suitable for roasting.





STEWED BEEF.

Take six pounds of round of beef, place it in a deep kettle, with half
a pint of water, half a pint of broth, a gill of good vinegar, a bunch
of parsley, a few cloves, a sprig of sweet marjoram, and some salt,
and pepper. Let it lay in this over night, turning it several times,
if it is warm weather; it is best to give the mixture a boil up,
putting the meat to it cold. The next day simmer four or five hours,
adding two onions chopped small; take up the meat, add a tea spoonful
of butter braided in flour to the strained liquor, with a dash of
mushroom catsup. Pour it over the meat, and serve. If more liquid is
required while stewing, put in broth or gravy, if you have it,-if not,
water.





CURED BRISKET OF BEEF FOR CHRISTMAS.

At night rub fourteen pounds of brisket of beef, with one ounce of
saltpetre pounded very fine; the next morning mix together 


View page [35]
half a pound of sugar, and four handfuls of common salt, and rub the
beef well over with it. Let it remain in the pickle two weeks, turning
and rubbing it every day; then take it out, and put it into an earthen
pan, with some suet chopped fine to cover the bottom of the pan, and
the same on the top of the beef, with a little water to keep the pan
from burning. Bake it slowly for six hours. Eaten cold.





CURED BEEF, TO EAT COLD.

Put three fourths of a pound of coarse sugar, one pound of bay salt,
nearly an ounce of allspice, a tea-spoonful or less of cloves, a small
piece of saltpetre, and three cents worth of cochineal, into four
quarts of water; let these all boil slowly together fully twenty
minutes; then take from the fire, and let it stand till quite
cool. Take a round of beef, from twenty to twenty-five pounds, and
pour this pickle over it, turning it once or twice a day, continuing
this for two or three weeks. At the end of this time it will be ready
for use.





BOILED BEEF STEAKS.

It is not necessary to beat them; cut them half an inch thick and
place them on the gridiron. The fire should be clear and brisk, the
gridiron should be hot, the bars rubbed with suet. Sprinkle a little
salt over the fire. Turn the steaks often, keeping a dish close to the
fire, in which to drain the gravy from the top of the steak as you
lift it. The gridiron is best set in a slanting direction, so that fat
will not fall on the coals and make a smoke. If there is a smoke, take
the steak off for a moment. Over a brisk fire of coals steaks will be
done in ten minutes. Then lay them on a hot plate with a small slice
of butter on each piece, pouring over them the gravy, and sprinkling
on a very little salt.





BEEF ALAMODE.

Lard a round of beef with slices of fat bacon dipped in vinegar; roll
it up with chopped seasoning, cloves, sage, parsley, thyme, pepper and
green onions; bind it close and put it in a sauce pan. Tnrn it when
half done, and let it stand for twelve hours on a stove. It can be
eaten hot or cold.






View page [36]


BRAISED BEEF.

Take five or six pounds of rump, and cover down close in a pan, with
enough butter or clarified dripping to prevent burning or sticking to
the pan; let it cook slowly for an hour, then pour off the grease and
put in a little broth, half a cup of rich gravy, a few drops of
vinegar, and a little calf's-foot jelly, if convenient; cover down
closely again and let it cook, with the heat all about it, for two
hours longer, basting frequently; when it is quite tender, take it up,
and mix half a table-spoonful of flour with a little cream, and put
into the gravy, which season to taste, and then pour over the meat,
that is to say, a part of it, for an economical cook will reserve part
to assist in the preparation of next day's dinner.





BRISKET OF BEEF STUFFED.

A piece weighing eight pounds requires about five or six hours to
boil. Make a dressing of bread crumbs, pepper, salt, sweet herbs, a
little mace, and one onion chopped fine and mixed with an egg. Put the
dressing in between the fat and the lean of the beef and sew it up
tight; flour the cloth; pin the beef up very tight in it; boil it five
or six hours. When it is done take the cloth off, and press it until
it is cold. This is to be cut in thin slices and eaten cold.





MOCK DUCK.

Procure a steak cut from the rump of beef, and fill it with a dressing
made of chopped bread, pork, sage, onions and sweet marjoram, and well
seasoned; sew it up, put a slice or two of pork, or some of the
dressing, on the top, and set it in a pan, into which pour a pint of
water; cover down tight, and let it cook slowly in the oven three
hours; then take off the lid, brown quickly, and serve hot.





OX CHEEK STUFFED AND BAKED.

Mash and soak thoroughly an ox cheek; put it into plenty of warm water
and boil gently an hour, throwing in a large tea spoonful of salt and
skimming occasionally. Lift it out, and when cool take out the
bones. Put in a good roll of forcemeat; bind up the 


View page [37]
cheek securely, and bake it in a moderate oven an hour or an hour and
a half, until it is quite tender clear through. Drain it from fat,
unbind it, and serve it with a good brown gravy, or any sauce
preferred, or with melted butter in a tureen, a cut lemon and cayenne.





SPICED BEEF.

This can be made from either the round, brisket or rump of beef, but
ribs are the most tender eating. Procure from eight to ten pounds of
the ribs of beef; those which have a good amount of fat upon them are
the best; remove the bone, rub the meat well with one ounce of
saltpetre pounded very finely, and three hours after this has been
applied, rub on half a pound of moist sugar; let the meat lay in this
for two days, then take one ounce of ground pepper, half an ounce of
pounded mace, a few cloves well pounded, and a tea-spoonful of cayenne
pepper. Mix all these ingredients well, and rub them well into the
beef, particularly into the holes, adding occasionally a little
salt. Roll up the meat as a round, and bind it with a strong
fillet. Chop some suet very finely, cover the beef with it, and bake
it in a moderately heated oven, from five to six hours. While baking,
it may be placed either upon a meat tin, or in an earthen jar as
nearly of its size as possible. In both cases there should be a cup
full of gravy or water under the meat, to prevent it from burning; if
a jar is used there should be a cover to it.





FILLETS OF BEEF.

Take two pounds of steak from a round of beef, cut thin, divide it
into strips about three inches broad; beat them with a chopper till
flat and tender, then chop finely some fresh gathered mushrooms, and
add a little pepper, salt, and fresh butter in small pieces. Lay the
mushrooms and seasoning half over the strips of steak; roll them up,
fasten them with a coarse needle and thread, (or with very tiny
skewers,) and lay the fillets in a pie dish to bake. The baking dish
should be covered with another dish of the same size, to prevent the
steam from evaporating, otherwise the outside of the meat will be
dry. Thicken the gravy which is in the baking dish with flour and
butter, and add mushroom catsup as a seasoning. 


View page [38]
The fillets will require turning whilst baking. But a less troublesome
plan of cooking a steak in this mode, is to have it dressed in one
piece. The steak should be cut thin and rolled as described, but
instead of mushrooms add a fine forcemeat or plain veal stuffing.





FILLETS OF BEEF WITH ANCHOVY.

Soak five or six anchovies in water for about two hours, split them
and put the fillet with them, mixed with some bacon; boil it on a slow
fire with a small quantity of broth, a glass of white wine, a clove of
garlic, two cloves, and a bunch of herbs. When sufficiently done,
strain the sauce, add to it a piece of butter rolled in flour, two
spoonsful of cream, and a few capers; mix in a little yolk of egg, and
pour it over the fillet.





FILLETS OF BEEF WITH FORCEMEAT.

Make forcemeat with fowls' livers, grated bacon, a little butter,
parsley, shallots, three yolks of eggs, and spices. Cut a fillet of
beef in two, flatten it with a cleaver, lard it through, then lay the
forcemeat between it, and also about a pint of small mushrooms which
have been previously stewed in a little butter; tie the meat up in a
cloth, boil it in broth, with a glass of wine and a bunch of sweet
herbs.





HUNTER'S BEEF.

Take a round of beef weighing fifteen pounds, and let it hang two or
three days. Reduce to a very fine powder two ounces of saltpetre, two
ounces of sugar, three quarters of an ounce of cloves, the same of
nutmeg, one third of an ounce of allspice, two handsful of common
salt. Bone the beef, and rub the spices well into it, and do so every
day for two or three weeks. When you wish to dress the meat, wash the
spices off the outside with cold water, bind it up tightly with tape,
and place it in a pan with a tea-cupful of water at the bottom; cover
the top of the meat with chopped suet; cover the pan with a coarse
paste, and brown paper over that. Let it bake five hours, and when it
is cold remove the paste and the tape. Some persons stuff the hole
left by taking out the bone, with chopped parsley and sweet herbs.






View page [39]


HUNG BEEF.

Make a strong brine of bay salt, saltpetre and pump water. Place in it
a piece of ribs of beef, and let it lie for nine days. Then hang it in
a chimney in the smoke of wood or sawdust. When it is nearly dry, wash
the outside with bullock's blood, and when this is dry, boil it and
serve it with vegetables.





HAMBURGH PICKLE FOR BEEF, HAMS AND TONGUE.

Take two gallons of water, three pounds of bay salt, or if that cannot
be got, five pounds of common salt, two pounds of coarse sugar, two
ounces of saltpetre, and two ounces of black pepper bruised and tied
in a fold of muslin; boil all together twenty minutes, removing the
scum as it rises. Pour the pickle into a deep earthen jar, and when it
is cold lay in the meat so that every part is covered. Turn the meat
occasionally. A middling sized round of beef will be ready for the
table in a fortnight.





MEAT PIE FOR LUNCH.

Place a thick rump steak well larded and rubbed with shallot in the
bottom of a saucepan, cut up some game into small pieces without
bones, and lay over the steak, mixed with pepper and salt and some
pieces of bacon; stew them all well, and add chopped mushrooms and a
rich gravy, before making them into the pie. The pie should have a
thick ornamental crust round the sides and on the bottom. Let the top
crust be loose, so that additional gravy can be poured in; and bake
until it is a light brown.





BEEF BALLS.

Take a piece of beef boiled tender, chop it very finely with an onion,
season with salt and pepper, add parsley, bread crumbs, lemon peel,
and grated nutmeg; moisten it with an egg, mix well together, and roll
it into balls. Then dip them in flour and fry them in boiling lard or
fresh dripping. Serve them with thickened brown gravy, or fried bread
crumbs.





BEEF CROQUETTES.

Mince some dressed beef very fine, melt a piece of butter in a 


View page [40]
stew pan, add three or four onions, chopped fine, and fried a pale
brown; add a spoonful of flour, and moisten with a little good stock,
or gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little parsley
chopped fine. When the sauce is done enough, put in the minced beef;
let it stew a short time till the sauce is dry, then form the meat
into either balls or rolls; dip each into the beaten white of eggs;
have some butter, or lard, hot; put each ball very gently into the
frying pan, shaking a little flour over them, roll them about gently
in the pan to brown them alike, and when a good color, drain them on a
cloth, and serve on dressed parsley.





HASHED BEEF.

Take cold roast beef, cut in slices, and remove skin and
gristle. Place in a stewpan a small piece of butter, an onion chopped
fine, a table-spoonful of flour; put it on the fire and stir it till
it browns, but be careful it does not burn. Then stir in gradually
half a pint of stock, flavored with herbs, with a little salt, and let
it boil up thick. Put in two table-spoonsful of hot green pickles
chopped small, and the slices of beef. Heat them through and serve
with sippets of toast.





COLD MINCED BEEF.

Having removed the fat and skin, mince the beef nearly to a paste:
stew gently--if possible over night, so that the fat may be skimmed
off. Season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle with oat-meal; chop a
half handful of parsley and thyme and throw in; boil a large onion
nearly tender, chop it and mix it in; add sufficient broth or
skim-milk and water to cover the beef; let it simmer two hours; then
thicken with a little oatmeal, and add a dessert spoonful of mushroom
or walnut catsup; stir well, boil a minute and serve with pieces of
bread toasted. The bones from which the meat is cut will do for the
broth in which the meat is stewed, if broth is used. Even then,
however, a tea-cupful of milk may be added with the thickening.





DRIED BEEF COOKED.

After being thinly sliced, as usual, freshen it in water; stew it in a
little water until tender; then beat an egg with a little flour, put 


View page [41]
a lump of butter to the beef, stir in the egg and flour, and serve on
toast bread with the gravy over it.





KEEPING BEEF.

Cut up the meat in pieces as large as you wish, and pack it in a
barrel or cask. Then make a brine as follows: one pound and half of
salt to one gallon of water, one ounce of saltpetre to one hundred
pounds of beef, one table-spoonful of ground pepper to one hundred
pounds of beef. Put in the salt and saltpetre, heat it boiling hot,
skim it, then add the pepper. Pour it on the beef boiling hot and
cover closely.





TOUGH BEEF.

Carbonate of soda will remedy tough beef. Cut the steaks the day
before using into slices about two inches thick; rub over them a small
quantity of soda; wash off next morning, cut it into suitable
thickness, and cook. The same process will answer for fowls, legs of
mutton, etc.

