<EPISODE NUMBER:496> <EPISODE NAME:When Patents Attack... Part Two!> <HOST:IRA GLASS>  OK. I listen to a lot of podcasts. I host a radio show that is distributed as a podcast. So I had a special interest in some interviews that one of my colleagues, Zoe Chace, did recently. She's one of the reporters for Planet Money, which itself is a podcast. Zoe was interviewing these two guys, Jim Logan and Richard Baker, who say that their company, Personal Audio, holds the patent on podcasts. And basically, anybody who makes a podcast owes them money. Zoe pointed out to them that their interview was going to be used on a podcast that has not paid them. <INTERVIEWER:ZOE CHACE>  So are we doing something illegal right now, though? <SUBJECT:RICHARD BAKER> I wouldn't comment on that. <SUBJECT:MAN> I wouldn't comment on it. <SUBJECT:JIM LOGAN> We don't-- I don't comment on the legalities. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Jim Logan says that he is one of the inventors of podcasting, even though he has never made a podcast himself. Here's how he figures. His company Personal Audio, back at the dawn of the internet age in 1996-- this is before the iPod existed-- it's before most homes were on the internet-- they decided to manufacture an MP3 player that would do all kinds of stuff that nobody seemed to be doing just yet, like downloading sound from the internet. And Jim says they filed for a patent. <SUBJECT:JIM LOGAN>  We didn't use these words back then. But buried within that patent description were ideas such as playlist and podcasting. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  They tried to design and manufacture their newfangled MP3 player for about a year, he says. And they failed. They gave up. So they never actually succeeded in making a device that could download audio off the internet and play it. They never made a podcast. Instead, they switched to a different technology-- an earlier technology. They decided to distribute magazine articles on cassette tapes. <SUBJECT:JIM LOGAN>  --which was kind of a crude form of podcasting, you might say. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  In this version of the history of podcasting, this right here would be one of the very first podcasts. And there is nothing digital about it at all. This is one of those old cassette tapes. These guys brought a stack of them to the interview. <SUBJECT:MAN>  Welcome to "Amazing-- the Best of Popular Science," brought to you by Magazines on Tape. Coming up, answers to some questions you have probably wondered about. What happens in your head when you have a headache? How does quicksand work? Why does your car-- <HOST:IRA GLASS>  This business also failed. But the way our patent system works, even though these guys never successfully created a system that took podcasts from the internet and put them into a portable audio player, they patented the idea that such a thing could happen. And now that other people have figured out how to do it, they want to get paid. It's only fair, Jim Logan told Zoe. <SUBJECT:JIM LOGAN>  I put my dollars and my time and my energy on the line. I took the market risk. And I went to market 10 years before people say that podcasting was invented in 2005. We were out there in-- well, not 10 years. We were out there in 1998, probably, with an offering. <INTERVIEWER:ZOE CHACE>  But I mean, these are cassette tapes. Like, this is not the iPhone. <SUBJECT:MAN> Well, remember, the patent talks to having it very similar to an iPhone-- a computerized device that would do this. What was happening there is they couldn't get the product done. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  These guys say that for now, they're not asking nonprofit podcasters, like our program, to pay them licensing fees-- just for-profit podcast businesses, like Adam Carolla and The Stuff You Should Know podcast, which is owned by Discovery Communications, and Marc Maron's comedy podcast, WTF, which Maron produces literally in his garage. <SUBJECT:MARC MARON>  There's no way I can afford to fight a court battle. And they know that. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  --which means he probably has to pay, though the letter he got doesn't specify a price. <SUBJECT:MARC MARON>  Why wouldn't they have a number? Why don't they have a percentage in mind or a number that they think is justified? Why don't they have that? Why aren't they willing to say that? Like, yeah, you all owe us $10. Why are they being cagey about that? Because it's a shakedown. <SUBJECT:RICHARD BAKER>  We have a price. We just don't want to make it public. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  I found Richard Baker of Personal Audio to ask the price myself. He wouldn't tell me, either. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  The reason why I'm asking this is because this podcaster said, if this is a fair price-- if you have a fair claim to make-- why wouldn't you name the price publicly if it's a fair price? <SUBJECT:RICHARD BAKER>  For one, most of our licensees don't want people to know how much they've paid or how many times they're downloading. If we were to give a public price of what it is-- say we settled with someone, and say they paid us $200,000-- someone could easily do the math and figure out exactly what their downloads are. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  Can you see why I'm asking this? One of the podcasters said, you are not naming a price because it's a shakedown. It's the secrecy that this podcaster found alarming. <SUBJECT:RICHARD BAKER>  Honestly, we believe this is a very, very fair price. Our goal is to make sure these podcasters succeed so that everybody makes money. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Settlements that Personal Audio has made in the past with Apple Computer and with some cellphone companies are also not public information. And the fact is most patent settlements are not public. And you might think, OK, well, so what? But these patent lawsuits are huge. And they're on the rise. The number of patent lawsuits climbed 50% in one year from 2011 to 2012. Entrepreneurs and engineers say these suits hurt and sometimes destroy young companies. They have an effect on the economy, on what we can and cannot do. But it is very hard to find out exactly what is going on. A good example-- two years ago, we devoted an episode of our program to the patent system. And we tried to explain what was going on by focusing on the company that some people say is the biggest patent troll out there. A patent troll is a company that uses patents mostly to sue other companies and ask for licensing fees. And in that show, we investigated this one patent that the company was involved with. The inventor whose name was on that patent was Chris Crawford. And we learned all kinds of things in that investigation. But the world of these lawsuits is so secretive there were basic questions we could not answer, like how much money was involved. What did Chris Crawford think of what was being done with his patent? There were 18 companies being sued for infringement on the patent. What was their opinion? How were they handling it? Well, two years have passed since then. And I am pleased to say that today-- today-- we can bring you a show where we actually answer the questions that usually in these kinds of cases go unanswered. It is a rare look inside this world. That litigation from two years ago has finished. The silence has been broken. Many, many facts have emerged that, frankly, kind of stunned us. And so today on our show, what we're going to do-- in the first half of the program, we're going to return to that old episode from 2011 explaining the patent and the lawsuit. And then in the second half, we're going to have the answers to many of the mysteries that were still unsolved two years ago. From WBEZ Chicago, it's This American Life, distributed by Public Radio International. I'm Ira Glass. Stick around. <HOST:IRA GLASS> And with that, I'm going to turn things over to This American Life producer and Planet Money co-host Alex Blumberg and NPR Digital Culture Correspondent Laura Sydell, who report the story. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  Intellectual Ventures, that firm that people in Silicon Valley point to as a quintessential patent troll, was founded by a guy named Nathan Myhrvold. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  Nathan Myhrvold used to be the chief technology officer at Microsoft, where he made a lot of money-- hundreds of millions of dollars. Even if you haven't heard of Intellectual Ventures, you might have heard of Nathan Myhrvold. <INTERVIEWER:STEPHEN COLBERT>  My guest tonight has written a six-volume book on cutting-edge food made with modern science. Please welcome Nathan Myhrvold. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  This is Myhrvold on the television show The Colbert Report, talking about another one of his ventures-- an opus on the science of cooking, which teaches you how to do things like make ice cream with liquid nitrogen. Myhrvold is the kind of guy the press loves to profile. <INTERVIEWER:STEPHEN COLBERT>  You're a world barbecue champion now? <SUBJECT:NATHAN MYHRVOLD>  Yep. <INTERVIEWER:STEPHEN COLBERT> You've discovered T. rex fossils. You've studied quantum physics with Stephen Hawking. And you have a new six-volume, 40-pound, $625 book-- <SUBJECT:NATHAN MYHRVOLD>  Yep. <INTERVIEWER:STEPHEN COLBERT>  --called-- <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  But this image of Nathan Myhrvold, who gives TED Talks and generally plays the role of an avuncular elder statesman for the tech industry, is at odds with the image of his company, Intellectual Ventures. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  --because Intellectual Ventures has amassed one of the largest patent portfolios in existence. There's an influential blog in Silicon Valley called Techdirt, which regularly refers to Intellectual Ventures as a patent troll. Another blog, IPWatchdog, called Intellectual Ventures "patent troll public enemy number one." And The Wall Street Journal's Law Blog had an article about Intellectual Ventures titled "Innovative Invention Company or Giant Patent Troll?" <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  I put the question to Nathan Myhrvold. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL>  Are you a patent troll? <SUBJECT:NATHAN MYHRVOLD>  [CHUCKLING] Well, that's a term that has been used by people to mean someone they don't like who has patents. I think you would find almost anyone who stands up for their patent rights has been called a patent troll. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  Intellectual Ventures says Myhrvold is anything but a patent troll. They're on the side of inventors. They pay inventors for patents. They gather these patents together into this huge warehouse of invention that companies can use if they want. Sort of like a department store for patents. Whatever technology you're looking for, Intellectual Ventures has it. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  And when reporters come to visit Myhrvold to underline this idea that IV is all about invention, he takes them to see this. [MACHINERY NOISE] <SUBJECT:> GEOFF DEANE: So out here, we're standing [INAUDIBLE] the brink of our machine shop. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  I'm on a tour with Geoff Deane, who runs the Intellectual Ventures Invention Lab. About 100 people work here. The lab is massive. There are people walking around in white lab coats mixing chemicals in beakers and looking at stuff under microscopes. There's a machine shop, a nanotechnology section. It's like a playground for scientists and engineers. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  And if you ask them what they've invented so far, there's a couple things they point to. A nuclear technology, they say, is safer and greener than existing technologies, a cooler that can keep vaccines cold for months without electricity, and the world's most high-tech mosquito zapper, which senses mosquitoes hundreds of feet away by detecting the speed of their wings. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  But the fact is this lab is a tiny fraction of what the company does. Intellectual Ventures has received a little over 1,000 patents on stuff they've come up with here, which pales in comparison to the more than 30,000 patents they've bought from other people. In fact, nothing that's come out of this lab-- not the mosquito zapper, not the nuclear technology-- nothing has made it into commercial use. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  That doesn't matter, executives here say. That's not the biggest part of our business, anyway. The main thing we do is help inventors-- make sure inventors are probably paid for their work. They say there are inventors out there doing brilliant work, holding patents, but not making money off of those patents. Companies are stealing their ideas. And these inventors don't have the legal savvy or deep pockets to stop them. And that is where Intellectual Ventures steps in to protect the little guy. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  A lot of people I met at IV told me some version of this story. I heard it over and over. And so finally, I asked for an example. If Intellectual Ventures isn't just a patent troll, give me an example-- someone with a breakthrough who wasn't being paid for it-- who Intellectual Ventures helped out and got paid. Two separate people pointed me to the same guy. <SUBJECT:> JOE CHERNESKY: There's one story I can think of-- a gentleman named Chris Crawford. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  This is one of the people who mentioned Chris Crawford-- Joe Chernesky, a vice president at Intellectual Ventures. <SUBJECT:> JOE CHERNESKY: The neat thing about Chris is he had no idea how to get money for his patents. He had this great idea. These patents were immensely valuable because every technology company was adopting the technology. Yet he didn't know how to get paid. He eventually found Intellectual Ventures. So we bought those patents. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  So I figured, I want to talk to this guy-- not so simple. It turned out trying to talk to Chris Crawford took us on a five-month odyssey where things didn't exactly fit the story that Intellectual Ventures was telling us. It started when I called Intellectual Ventures to get Chris Crawford's contact info. I got a strange email back in response. I was told they no longer own Chris Crawford's patent. And I was told he probably wouldn't want to talk to me right now because he was in the middle of litigation. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  So we started digging around. We found Chris Crawford in Clearwater, Florida. But as predicted, he never responded to our many emails and phone calls. We were able, though, to locate his patents. There were four of them, all pretty similar. And we focused on one. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  --patent number 5,771,354. He got it in 1998, back in the relatively early days of the internet. And the way IV explained the patent to us, Chris Crawford invented something that we all do all the time now. He figured out a way to upgrade the software on your home computer over the internet. So in other words, when you turn on your computer, and a little box pops up and says, click here to upgrade to the newest version of iTunes, that was Chris Crawford's idea. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  But when we looked at the patent, it seemed to claim a lot more than that. The patent says this invention makes it possible to connect to an online service provider to do a bunch of stuff-- software purchases, online rentals, data backups, information storage. The patent makes it seem like this one guy, Chris Crawford, invented a lot of what we do on the internet every day. We weren't sure what to make of this. So we turned to an expert. <SUBJECT:DAVID MARTIN>  --Laura, is you're going to start by looking at the left and right-hand screen. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  This is David Martin, who runs a company called M-CAM. They're hired by governments, banks, businesses, to assess patent quality, which they do with this fancy software program. <SUBJECT:DAVID MARTIN>  The patent's on the left. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> We asked him to assess Chris Crawford's patent. <SUBJECT:DAVID MARTIN>  Now, if you would please, just click on the patent number itself, Laura. And that-- <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> The software program actually scans through millions of patents and analyzes them to see if any of them overlap. <SUBJECT:DAVID MARTIN>  That's a bad number. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> An idea being patented is supposed to be non-obvious to a person of ordinary skill in the art. What that means is that you shouldn't be able to get a patent for just a common-sense good idea. It has to be a breakthrough. <SUBJECT:DAVID MARTIN>  That's correct. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  And what we're seeing on David Martin's computer screen does not look like a breakthrough. <SUBJECT:DAVID MARTIN>  5,303 patents that were issued while his was being prosecuted, which covered the same material-- 5,303. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> And so that means that at the same time that Chris Crawford's patent was getting issued-- <SUBJECT:DAVID MARTIN>  Only 5,303 other people were pursuing the same thing. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG>  And when you say, "the same thing--" <SUBJECT:DAVID MARTIN>  I mean the same thing. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  David Martin may be exaggerating a little here for effect. But as we look through some of the patents that are on the screen, the resemblances are pretty clear. Remember, Chris Crawford's patent is for, quote, "an online backup system." <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  We asked a second patent expert to evaluate Chris Crawford's patent. And he told us that everything in it was already being done on computers in the 1980s, long before Chris Crawford even filed the patent. He thought the patent never should have been granted in the first place. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  Patents are so fundamental to the American way of life that they're in the Constitution. Their purpose is, quote, "to promote the useful arts and sciences." If there were no such thing as a patent, Eli Whitney, the inventor of the cotton gin, would have had to keep his invention hidden in a dark room with no windows so nobody would steal the idea. But with a patent, he could publish the blueprints. People would have to pay him if they wanted to manufacture their own cotton gins. And we would have thousands of cotton gins everywhere. Patents make it safe to share and to innovate. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  But people in Silicon Valley will tell you the problem with software patents today is that all kinds of things are getting patented that aren't breakthroughs and don't deserve a patent. They're too broad or too obvious. And a lot of the people that tell you that are the people that software patents are supposed to protect-- software engineers. <SUBJECT:STEPHAN BRUNNER>  I have to say I actually worked on a whole bunch of patents in my career over the years. And I have to say that every single patent is nothing but crap. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  This is Stephan Brunner, a programmer. He said something we heard from a lot of software engineers. His software patents don't even make sense to him. <SUBJECT:STEPHAN BRUNNER>  I can't tell you for the hell of it what they're actually supposed to do. Because I did not-- the company said we have to do a patent on this. And then they send in a lawyer. And you basically say, yeah, that's probably right. That's probably wrong. And they just write something. And it makes no sense. And personally, when I look at them, I'm not proud at all. Because most of them, again, it's just like mumbo jungo, which nobody understands and which makes no sense from an engineering standpoint whatsoever. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  Stephan Brunner, patent 7,650,296-- quote, "a configurator using structure and rules to provide a user interface." One sample section interests me. The whole thing is like this. "According to one embodiment of the invention, a customizable product class is created. A component product class is added to the customizable product class where the component product class is a subclass of the customizable product." <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  The patent system, the way it works now, can actually hinder innovation because patents can be used as weapons against new businesses. Engineers say patents don't help them create new products. Often, they get in the way. <SUBJECT:CHRIS SACCA>  We're at a point in the state of intellectual property where existing patents probably cover every single behavior that's happening on the internet and our mobile phones today. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  This is Chris Sacca, a Silicon Valley venture capitalist who's helped lots of companies, including Twitter and Uber, get off the ground. <SUBJECT:CHRIS SACCA>  So I have no doubt that the average Silicon Valley startup or even medium-sized company-- no matter how truly innovative they are, I have no doubt that aspects of whatever they're doing violate patents that are out there right now. And that's what's fundamentally broken about the system right now. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  Which brings us back to that patent that Intellectual Ventures pointed us to as an example of the system fundamentally working well-- not being broken-- patent 5,771,354, Chris Crawford's patent. As we've said, this patent seems to cover a remarkable chunk of what's happening on the internet-- upgrading software, buying stuff online, cloud storage, storing data on the internet. If you have a patent on all that, you could sue a lot of people, make a lot of money. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  And in fact, that's what's happening with Chris Crawford's patent. Intellectual Ventures sold it to another company, a company called Oasis Research, in June of 2010. Less than a month later, Oasis Research used the patent to sue 16 different tech companies-- companies like Rackspace, GoDaddy, and AT&amp;T-- companies that do cloud storage. <SUBJECT:MAN>  You have reached Oasis Research. At the tone, please leave your name-- <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  I called the number on Oasis's website numerous times. But an actual human being never picked up. For a while, the message directed all questions to a lawyer in New York named John Desmarais. He also didn't return our phone calls. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  There is hardly any public information about Oasis Research-- minimal corporate filings, no way to know who owned it, how many employees it had, if it even had employees at all. One of the few details that was available-- an address in Marshall, Texas-- 104 East Houston Street, Suite 190. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL>  What are you opening the door to? <SUBJECT:MICHAEL SMITH>  Right now we're going into the first floor of the Baxter Building, which is 104 East Houston. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  This is Michael Smith. He's an attorney in Marshall, Texas, who does mostly patent cases. He agreed to show us the offices of Oasis Research. They're in a nondescript, two-story building on the town's main square, two doors down from the federal courthouse. He led us into a narrow corridor lined with doors with gold and black office name plates. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL SMITH>  And here we go, Suite 190, Oasis Research, LLC. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  It was late morning on a weekday, not a holiday. But the door was locked. Through the crack underneath, you could see there were no lights on inside. Marshall is a very small town-- 24,000 people. Michael was born and raised here. So we started quizzing him about Oasis. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL>  Does it have any employees that you know about? <SUBJECT:MICHAEL SMITH>  Not that I know of. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL>  Have you ever seen any people coming in and out of that office? <SUBJECT:MICHAEL SMITH>  No, I haven't. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL>  If you don't mind, I'm going to knock on the door and just see if there's anyone here today. [KNOCKING ON DOOR] <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  I know this is kind of a cliche at this point-- knocking on the door of the suspected fake office. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL>  Nothing. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  But we'd flown a long way. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  But I will say, standing in that corridor was eerie. All the other doors looked exactly the same-- locked, name plates over the door, no light coming out. It was a corridor of silent, empty offices. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL SMITH>  Right next door to Software Rights Archive, Bullet Proof Technology of Texas, Jellyfish Technology of Texas, and a couple others that I recognize as plaintiffs in cases that we're involved in here. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL>  Are there are a lot of companies like this here in East Texas? <SUBJECT:MICHAEL SMITH>  Yes. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  And we're standing in a whole corridor of them, it seems like. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL SMITH>  Yes. This would be ground zero, yes. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  So what's going on here? It turns out a lot of those companies in that corridor-- maybe every single one of them-- are doing exactly what Oasis Research is doing. They appear to have no employees. They're not making new inventions here. They're filing lawsuits for patent infringement. Patent lawsuits, says Michael Smith, are big business in Marshall, part of the Eastern District of Texas. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  Smith told us there are about 2,000 patent cases in the courthouse in Marshall. And we got lots of explanations for why-- why all these New York and San Francisco-based companies come to tiny Marshall. One theory-- the juries are friendly to people doing the suing. Another-- medical malpractice attorneys switched careers after Texas passed malpractice tort reform. My favorite theory, though-- all these patent cases are in Marshall because of the drug war. The flood of drug cases made it impossible for patent suits to get in front of a judge in big cities like Dallas or Houston. So the patent cases moved to sleepy little Marshall. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  We'd come to Marshall to figure out which story about Intellectual Ventures was true. Are they a patent troll? Or are they out there protecting the rights of struggling inventors everywhere? So we went back to Intellectual Ventures for answers and talked to the company's vice chairman, a guy named Peter Detkin. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  One interesting footnote about Peter Detkin-- he's actually the person who coined the phrase "patent troll." This was years ago. He was one of the top lawyers at the computer chip maker Intel. They got sued by a company claiming patent infringement. And Detkin called the lawyer who filed the claim a, quote, "patent extortionist." The lawyer turned around and sued Peter Detkin for libel. So Detkin says he held a contest at Intel to come up with a better name. <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN>  And we got a lot of suggestions. But none really fit. But at the time, my daughter was, I think, four or five. And she liked playing with those little troll dolls. The original one, in fact, is still in my office. And so I turned to her. And I said, oh, well, the story of a troll kind of fits because of the whole Billy Goats Gruff thing. It's someone lying under a bridge they didn't build, demanding payment from anybody who passed. I said, how about a patent troll? <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  Of course, the name stuck. After leaving Intel, Detkin teamed up with Nathan Myhrvold to start Intellectual Ventures, the company that many people call the biggest patent troll out there. Peter Detkin obviously disagrees with this characterization. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  So anyway, we went to Peter Detkin to ask our questions. But even the most basic question about the story Intellectual Ventures had told us, he couldn't answer. Like, for example, when did they buy Chris Crawford's patent? <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  There's a document that's publicly available on the US Patent Office website. It traces a patent's ownership history. In the case of Chris Crawford's patent, though, the ownership history was really hard to understand. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  The first owner is clear. It's Chris Crawford, who was granted the patent in 1998. And then it's clear that a company named Intellectual Ventures Computing Platforce Assets, LLC-- no one can actually tell us what a platforce is-- bought the patent in July of 2010. But in between those two dates, there are two other owners, a company called Kwon Holdings and another one named Enhanced Software, LLC. And what was odd-- Kwon Holdings, Enhanced Software, and Intellectual Ventures all have the same address. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  We showed this document to Peter Detkin for explanation. But this simple question-- when did you buy the patent-- completely threw him off and led the PR woman, who was in the room with us, to jump in and try to shut down the interview. You'll hear her voice in the background. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG>  This is just the patent history of Chris's patent. And honestly, we just don't understand this. So if you could explain what we're looking at here. So he invented it in 1998. <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN>  [? I haven't ?] [? put ?] my reading glasses on. So I'm struggling a little bit here. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> So it says-- <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN>  OK, so here-- <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL>  So he invented this first-- <SUBJECT:PR WOMAN>  I don't know that getting into the history of this patent is necessary. <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN>  Well, I know where you're going with this. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG>  Well-- <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL>  We don't under-- <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN>  What's the question? What are you trying to find out? <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG>  We would like-- if you could explain. The story you're telling is that you bought this patent from this inventor, Chris Crawford. And then you sold it a little bit later. But then if you actually look at the history, it's a very different story. It seems very different. So I'm trying to figure out-- if you could explain it to us. That's what I'm trying-- <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN>  I won't be able to tell you by looking at this. I mean, I'm not an expert in-- I don't even know what-- you're on the USPTO website? I haven't looked at this particular website in a while. I don't know how it's organized. I'm trying to be helpful. But the fact is, I know we bought it from some entity of his. And apparently, we then sold it. And again, I have some vague recollection of us doing that deal. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG>  But are you telling me that you run a patent company and you were the head counsel for Intel in the patent department. You don't know what the patent office website-- you don't know how to read this? <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN>  Look, I mean, I could look at this if you want. But I haven't looked at this particular website. And I don't know how it's organized. And I'm not exactly sure what it is you're trying to get at. So I'm happy to answer questions. But if you're going to cross-examine me on the record about a patent website, I don't think that's quite fair. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG>  So for example, one question is when was it sold to Intellectual Ventures. Because it's sold a number of times. But it's sold a number of times to different companies with the same address as Intellectual Ventures. Does that mean that it was sold to Intellectual Ventures but not-- <SUBJECT:PR WOMAN>  It's a little different. And we're not going to talk [? about this-- ?] <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN> Yeah, I have no idea. There's no way without knowing the details of this particular deal I could ever possibly answer that question. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  We were honestly surprised at this response. It wasn't like this was a secret document or something. What was the big deal about answering the seemingly simple question? <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  Part of it certainly was that we took him a little bit by surprise. I take him at his word that they do a lot of deals. And he doesn't know the details of every one. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  But part of it is that Intellectual Ventures does a lot of its patent deals through shell companies-- hundreds of them-- shell companies owned by Intellectual Ventures but registered under different names, where it's very difficult to tell that Intellectual Ventures is the actual owner. So what was their relationship with Oasis and Chris Crawford? <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  Well, we uncovered a document. It's called a Certification of Interested Parties. The court in Texas required that Oasis list all the entities who have a financial stake in the outcome of the case. This is a standard form that pretty much all parties in civil cases have to file. Oasis listed the parties that most people list-- the plaintiff, the defendants, the attorneys involved. But it added one other name-- Intellectual Ventures. So we went back to Intellectual Ventures one more time to talk to Peter Detkin. We picked up where we left off the last time. When did Intellectual Ventures actually buy Chris Crawford's patent? And this time, he had no hesitation about explaining it. <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN>  This is when we bought it-- October of 2007 from CMC Software to Kwon Holdings. And Kwon is a company that we created to purchase these assets. Then when we actually struck a deal and prepared to sell it, in the name of transparency, we changed it to the Intellectual Ventures Computing Platforce Assets. Please don't ask me what a platforce is. I don't know what it is. And then in August of 2010, we sold it to Oasis research. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  We showed Detkin that court document from the Oasis case listing Intellectual Ventures as an interested party. <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN>  OK. And it does list the Intellectual Ventures Computing Platforce Assets as an interested party. I see that. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG>  And you don't know why in this instance you're listed? <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN>  I believe it's because we likely have a back end arrangement here. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG>  What does a back end deal mean? <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN>  We sell for some amount of money up front. And we get some percentage of the royalty stream down the road that is generated from the monetization of these assets. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  So just to spell this out, Peter Detkin is saying it's likely that Intellectual Ventures is taking a cut of whatever money Oasis gets from its lawsuits. Oasis, a company with no operations, no products, and as far as we can tell, no employees, whose only activity seems to be taking a very broad patent from 1998 and using it to sue over a dozen internet companies today. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  And so we asked him, how does it feel making money from an entity which is behaving a lot like the patent trolls that he once condemned? <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN>  These are patents we used to hold. We no longer hold. And we ensure that we have no control over the actions of these third parties. They are independent actors. They're not Intellectual Ventures. They may be monetizing in ways that we disagree with. But it's not our call. It's theirs. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> But you're also still getting paid. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> Yeah. I mean, I sort of feel like, yeah, well, but what do you expect? You must have some knowledge that it's highly likely these people are going to go and bring lawsuits, especially since they're companies that only have these largely run by attorneys. <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN>  Sure. No, I understand. And I'm not just disputing any of that. What I'm trying to say, and I apologize if I'm not being clear, is that we do believe-- we believe in our heart that litigation is a highly inefficient way to do licensing. But let's not lose sight that litigation is just licensing by other means. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  In other words, we try to license these patents in a friendly way. But sometimes you have to sue. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  Peter Detkin then repeated the company line that we'd heard from a lot of people at IV-- that the mission of Intellectual Ventures is to help inventors bring great ideas into the world, that lots of inventors, they're like great artists-- brilliant, but not brilliant at business. So their patents languish. IV gets their ideas into the hands of companies who will actually build what they've invented. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Coming up, Chris Crawford speaks, and more secrets of Oasis Research revealed. That's in a minute from WBEZ Chicago and Public Radio International when our program continues. <HOST:IRA GLASS> It's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass. Today on our program, "When Patents Attack, Part Two"-- the sequel-- the squeekquel. Today we return to a story we first reported on two years ago about our patent system-- how it sometimes seems to be discouraging rather than encouraging innovation. A quick review of where we are so far-- OK, there's this company called Intellectual Ventures. Its executives told our reporters that if they wanted to understand what the company was all about-- if they wanted proof that their company is not a patent troll but out there helping the little guy inventor just get fair payment, then they should talk to this inventor that Intellectual Ventures helped out, a patent holder named Chris Crawford. But when our reporters tried, Chris Crawford would not talk to them. His patents were now in the hands of a company called Oasis Research. And they were being used to sue over a dozen different tech businesses. And back in 2011, we didn't learn much more than that. We didn't know who was behind Oasis Research. We had no idea how much money was at stake in the case. We suspected that some companies had settled with Oasis. But we had no idea how many or for how much. And most significantly, we had no idea how the guy at the center of the whole mystery, Chris Crawford, felt about it all. We had no idea if he knew what was being done with this patent-- if he approved, or if he was like some of the software engineers we talked to who didn't like that their patents got sold to companies that only used them to threaten lawsuits. Well, I'm please to say now we have answers to all of those questions-- every one of those questions. Here again is Alex Blumberg and Laura Sydell. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  There ended up being 18 defendants in the Oasis case-- 18 tech companies it claimed were infringing on Chris Crawford's patents. Many of those 18 companies in the beginning pooled legal forces to figure out what to do. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  But that pool got smaller and smaller as companies decided to just cut a deal with Oasis-- pay them a licensing fee in exchange for being dropped from the suit. At a certain point, an online backup company called Carbonite was one of two companies remaining in the case. In full disclosure here, Carbonite is an underwriter of National Public Radio news programs. Carbonite CEO David Friend says it was tough to be one of the last men standing, especially with the advice that they were getting from the lawyers they'd hired. <SUBJECT:DAVID FRIEND>  You know, what our lawyers were saying is it's going to cost us millions of dollars more to take this to trial. And if we lose, we're really screwed. If we could settle this thing and just have it go away, why don't we do that? And I was sort of like, well, because we're not in violation of their patents. Why should we pay them anything, even a nickel? <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  Friend says he'd done a patent search when he started his company and never came across Chris Crawford's patents. <SUBJECT:DAVID FRIEND>  I mean, the reason was that they were way too old. And we figured, how could there be a patent relevant to backing up over the internet before the internet was even invented? <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  What they hadn't counted on was a patent that was so broad, it covered anyone backing up any data over the internet using any system at all. <SUBJECT:DAVID FRIEND>  As a businessman, you know, I'm put in this situation where my board is saying, you should settle. And my lawyers are saying, you should settle. And everybody else is settling. I felt like we were being extorted. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  The problem is, defending a patent case is really hard. Patents are complicated. So is technology. Trying to explain which part of a patent should or should not apply to which part of a computer program-- it's a trick just to get the jury to understand, let alone go along with your point of view. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  But there is an easier way to win a patent case, a way where you don't have to force a jury to second guess the experts at the patent office. If you can demonstrate that the inventor wasn't telling the truth when he filled out the application-- if, for example, he wasn't the only inventor. So lawyers for Carbonite and the other company that had chosen not to settle-- EMC-- started to dig into Chris Crawford's history, looking for clues that might invalidate his patent. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  Carbonite's Chief Counsel Danielle Sheer says one of the first places they went looking was the company where Chris Crawford was working at the time he claimed to have come up with his idea. <SUBJECT:DANIELLE SHEER>  We located some individuals who had worked with Chris Crawford in the early 1990s. And I'll call him the person who connected all the dots-- was this man named Chuck Campos, who was Chris Crawford's boss in 1991 for a company called ACS. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  Lawyers described Chris Crawford's patents to Chuck Campos and asked if he knew anything about the circumstances where he developed those ideas. And he told them, yes. I was with him when those ideas were developed. And they weren't only Chris Crawford's ideas. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  Chuck Campos told the lawyers that the ideas mainly came from two other guys, Jack Byrd and Don Atwood. <SUBJECT:DANIELLE SHEER>  This was in 1990. Don Atwood and Jack Byrd are business partners. They have a company called WBT, LLC. Jack Byrd loved acronyms. WBT stands for We've Been There. And the two of them were working on a technology consulting company. And they lived about 30 miles apart. And I think they were developing software. Two idea guys had a lot of technical experience. And they wanted to save their work. And at the time, the only way to do that was to download it to floppy disk drives. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  But then, the disk drives are just sitting at your house, so not safe from a fire or some other natural disaster. <SUBJECT:DANIELLE SHEER>  So they decided, well, we need to keep this data safe. So let's download a copy of what we're working on on floppy disk drives. And I'll meet you halfway in between our homes-- 15 miles each. And let's exchange the floppy disk drives. That way, we've got a little bit of disaster recovery contingency. <SUBJECT:DAVID FRIEND> Yeah. You put your data on my computer. And I'll put my data on your computer. And then they'll both be relatively safe. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  That was their backup system-- driving 15 miles each way, meeting in the middle, getting out of their cars, and exchanging a pair of floppy disks. <SUBJECT:DANIELLE SHEER>  Mm-hm. <SUBJECT:DAVID FRIEND> Yeah, exactly. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  Naturally, being idea guys, they thought, there has to be a better way. Phone modems were just becoming ubiquitous around this time. And they thought, how about a business backing up data remotely over the phone line using a modem? A little bit later, Jack Byrd meets Chuck Campos, tells him about the idea. And he joins the group. They decide they need a specific type of computer to back up all the data-- something called an AS/400. <SUBJECT:DANIELLE SHEER>  That is finally where Chris Crawford comes into the situation. Chris Crawford was hired by Chuck Campos at ACS. He had expertise with the AS/400. He was a junior guy at this point. And Chuck asks him if he wants to be part of their group. Because they want to get an online backup business going. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  The group met regularly Saturdays at Jack Byrd's apartment over the course of a couple months. And during these meetings, they discussed all sorts of things, from the technical details of how this backup system would work to details about the company itself-- how they'd split ownership four ways-- 25% each. And also what the new company they were forming way back in the early '90s would be called. The name they chose-- PC Oasis. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  That's right. The name of the company that Chris Crawford was invited to join in the early 1990s had the same name as the shell company in East Texas that was suing people two decades later. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  And apparently, the name had also been Jack Byrd's idea. Remember, he was the acronym guy. <SUBJECT:DANIELLE SHEER>  It stands for Offsite Automatic-- I don't know. [CHUCKLING] <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  For the record, Offsite Archival Software and Information Server-- Oasis. <SUBJECT:DAVID FRIEND> They had actually sketched a sort of a logo-- an idea for a logo for their company. <SUBJECT:DANIELLE SHEER>  Oh, right. <SUBJECT:DAVID FRIEND> I think it was in Jack Byrd's hand. It was done on pencil and paper. And it was kind of a world-- a globe-- with four palm trees. <SUBJECT:DANIELLE SHEER>  It was an island. <SUBJECT:DAVID FRIEND> --an island-- that's right. <SUBJECT:DANIELLE SHEER>  --an oasis island. <SUBJECT:DAVID FRIEND> --with four palm trees growing on it, representing the four partners in this business. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  So how did this same name come to be given two decades later to a shell company in East Texas? Well, back in the '90s, the first Oasis never got off the ground. The problem was they couldn't figure out a way to get consumer online backup working using the technology that most people had available in their homes in the early '90s-- phone lines and modems. So they disbanded the company and went on their way. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  But all those meetings where they'd been sketching everything out, figuring out the technology, solving the problems-- Chris Crawford had been the main note-taker at those meetings. <SUBJECT:DANIELLE SHEER>  A couple years later, Chris Crawford-- he ends up filing some patents. And he uses the documents that he's created in these meetings to prove that he has this idea and here's how the idea works and to draw the figures for the patent and to come up with the claims. So Jack Byrd, Don Atwood, and Chuck Campos know nothing about what Chris Crawford is doing-- nothing at all. He doesn't start a business. Instead, he sells those patents to a company named Kwon Holdings. It has some kind of affiliation with Intellectual Ventures. And he sells them for millions of dollars. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG>  Do you know exactly how much he sold them for? <SUBJECT:DANIELLE SHEER>  $12 million and an ongoing percentage of royalties for anything that the next owner collects. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG>  Wow. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL>  Wow. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> Do you know what the percentage was? <SUBJECT:DANIELLE SHEER>  I think it's something as high as 18 and 1/2%. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  The problem was Chris Crawford had sold something for $12 million that wasn't his to sell. If Chris Crawford's three former business partners had also developed the idea, they should have at the very least been listed as co-inventors on Crawford's original patent applications. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  So the lawyers for EMC and Carbonite now had something like a smoking gun to use at trial-- these three men with a very compelling story about how the patent had been mostly their idea, not Chris Crawford's. But at trial, it would still be just their word against Crawford's. The lawyers wanted proof-- something in the documents that Crawford filed with the patent office that mentioned the other inventors. There were lots of these documents from those Saturday meetings that mentioned the three partners. Chuck Campos had a box in his attic full of them. But none of those documents mentioning the others made their way into Chris Crawford's patent application. Well, almost none. <SUBJECT:DANIELLE SHEER>  In the thousands of pages that Chris Crawford submitted to the patent office in order to obtain his patents, one of the documents had a sentence that said that this is in response to Jack Byrd's idea to provide online backup. And of course, one of the excellent attorneys that worked on this for EMC and Carbonite located that document and questioned Chris about it. <SUBJECT:ATTORNEY> The May 23, 1992, proposal, which is marked as Exhibit 10. <SUBJECT:CHRIS CRAWFORD>  Yes. I'm looking at it. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  And here he is, the man we've been looking for, Chris Crawford, the man who was granted patent number 5,771,354, one of the patents used to sue 18 companies. This is sound from a videotaped deposition he gave as part of the Oasis trial. He's polished-- crisp white shirt, paisley tie, tortoise-shell reading glasses. He's got sandy brown hair, a tan. The lawyer continues to question him. <SUBJECT:ATTORNEY> So the first paragraph of this document reads, quote, "This proposal, it is in response to Jack Byrd's idea to provide automated offsite backup services for PC users." And aren't you in the second sentence saying that Jack Byrd had an idea to provide automated offsite backup services for PC users? <SUBJECT:CHRIS CRAWFORD>  No. What I'm saying is that Jack Byrd had an idea of me pursuing the automated offsite backup services that I had-- <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  Chris Crawford then launches into a rather surprising explanation for how the sentencing that this business was, quote, "Jack Byrd's idea," doesn't actually mean that the business was Jack Byrd's idea. His explanation? He was using the apostrophe S incorrectly. <SUBJECT:CHRIS CRAWFORD>  As far as the apostrophe S-- and I'm still not clear if you're trying to derive a specific meaning with respect to the apostrophe S-- <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  Of course, what would a sentence reading, "in response to Jack Byrds idea" even mean if the S was plural? <SUBJECT:ATTORNEY> I'm asking you, though-- you certainly know what the use of an apostrophe S means, do you not? <SUBJECT:CHRIS CRAWFORD>  [SNIFFING] As I've written documents over the years, there are times when I use an apostrophe S, and it seems like I'm supposed to use an apostrophe S. But I have to say that my grammar is not strong enough to tell you right now with clarity when an apostrophe S is used. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  This explanation, apparently, did not convince the jury, and Oasis lost the case. The jury concluded that the patents were indeed invalid for failing to name the correct co-inventors. Yet this victory just shows how difficult it is to defend yourself against a patent infringement claim. The lawyers for Carbonite believe that without that one document-- that one apostrophe S-- they might have lost. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  Because here's how tough the jury was. The jury verdict said that the patents were improperly filed because Jack Byrd's name should have been listed as a co-inventor. Just Jack Byrd-- not Chuck Campos and Don Atwood, the other men who testified under oath that they too had been involved in developing the ideas. Only Jack Byrd's name had been on that document. And only Jack Byrd got credit from the jury as a co-inventor. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  And for the 16 companies that did settle, the verdict may not change anything. In most cases, these licensing agreements have language that makes them nearly impossible to get out of, no matter what happens with the patent later on. This week, we heard back from a spokesman from one of the companies that chose to settle. The spokesman wrote in an email, quote, "We were hit hard by this lawsuit. Infringement on our part seemed completely bogus, but we could not afford to fight it. Even with the settlement, we were forced to lay off employees. We are still--" and "still" is in all caps-- "still paying out on the settlement agreement. We were unaware that the patent had been invalidated. We will be contacting our attorney to see what recourse we may have." <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  Like we've been saying, because so many of these cases settle with nondisclosure agreements, we almost never find out how much money changed hands. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  But because of the Oasis case, we now have a sense of how much money that can be. Because Carbonite won their case and didn't settle, they weren't bound by a nondisclosure agreement. And they were happy to reveal how much money Oasis wanted from them. <SUBJECT:DANIELLE SHEER>  Well, the original number that was thrown out-- I don't think it was official-- was they wanted $20 million. <SUBJECT:DAVID FRIEND> Plus a share of our revenues-- <SUBJECT:DANIELLE SHEER>  --going forward. <SUBJECT:DAVID FRIEND> --ongoing. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG>  What? <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL>  [CHUCKLING] <SUBJECT:DANIELLE SHEER>  Which what David was at was at a little under half of the cash we had in the bank at that time. <SUBJECT:DAVID FRIEND> Plus a percentage of our ongoing business forever. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  And remember, Carbonite was one of the smaller companies being sued. We don't know what they were asking from the other guys. But a lawyer named Tom Ewing says you can make an educated guess. Ewing runs a small side business tracking and identifying Intellectual Ventures' shell companies. And he says, assuming Oasis was asking for settlements in rough proportion to the size of the company being targeted, you can put together a pretty good estimate of their total take from this lawsuit. <SUBJECT:TOM EWING> I'm guessing it would be in excess of $100 million. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  $100 million. And who would have gotten that $100 million? Some of the money went to the lawyers who prepped the case and negotiated the settlements for Oasis. Some of it went to the owner of Oasis Research, a mysterious figure named Gordon Jumonville, who showed up in court every day but never testified and never returned our phone calls. But most of the profit went to Intellectual Ventures. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  Remember Peter Detkin? When we spoke with him, he explained the financial arrangement with Oasis this way. <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN>  We get some percentage of the royalty stream down the road that is generated from the monetization of these assets. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  And because of documents filed with the court, we now know what the percentage was-- 90. Intellectual Ventures sold Chris Crawford's patents to Oasis Research on the condition that it get 90% of the net profit. That's 90% of tens of millions of dollars. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  Chris Crawford didn't make out too badly, either. Documents also say that Chris Crawford gets 17 and 1/2% of the money that Intellectual Ventures makes. Now, let's just pause to consider that $100 million for a second. That's $100 million off of one guy's patents. That is a lot of money. And other people see that money. And they want in on that action. They think that's a good business-- getting a hold of patents-- using them to sue people. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  Tom Ewing, the lawyer who tracks Intellectual Ventures, says that's getting easier because every year more patents are issued than the year before. According to a Yale study, it's 100 software patents a day. <SUBJECT:TOM EWING> It took 121 years for us to get the first 1 million patents. Now it takes more or less six years to get another million patents. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  And the more patents are issued, the less careful the patent office seems to be. According to a study by the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development, quote, "The rush to protect even minor improvements in products or services is overburdening patent offices. This slows the time to market for true innovations and reduces the potential for breakthrough inventions." <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  Case in point-- <SUBJECT:NICK DESAULNIERS>  About three years ago this time of the year, my father passed away from a heart attack. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  Not long ago, I was at a meeting in San Francisco put on by the Electronic Frontier Foundation, an advocacy group that's been critical of the patent system. It was an open meeting. And this guy you hear talking, Nick Desaulniers, had decided on the spur of the moment to drop in. And after hearing a couple of other people tell their stories, he got up to tell his. He's an engineer. And his father's death had spurred him to invent a low-cost heart monitor, which he believed might have saved his dad's life. He developed a prototype in a graduate school class. And he'd started dreaming a bit. <SUBJECT:NICK DESAULNIERS>  You know, I got really excited about it. And I was thinking, maybe I can make a business out of this. My grandfather started his own business. My father made his own business. I need to make my own business someday. So this was something I was really thinking, like, hey, I can make a business out of this. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  But then he started a patent search to see if anyone else had come up with something resembling his idea already. <SUBJECT:NICK DESAULNIERS>  I was horrified at how generic some of the patents were-- "a system for remotely monitoring physiological signals." What the hell does that mean? There are so many ways, so many variables. How are you getting the data from point A to point B? There are so many ways to do that. And this patent, it covers-- I guess it covers them all. And seeing some of the numbers that these companies are going back and forth suing each other for, I'm terrified to create a business because of the patent system. I'm horrified. And I'm scared. And I'm not going to create a business because of it. So however many jobs I could have created or however many lives I could have saved, that's it. <SUBJECT:MAN>  Thanks. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  And that is the current state of things. Something as dry as the US patent system can move somebody to tears. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  Since our last broadcast, we've gotten used to front-page stories about huge tech companies in multimillion dollar battles over patents. But what hasn't been making the front page as often-- patent cases spreading to the rest of us. Over the last couple of years, there have been numerous stories about small businesses-- individuals even-- getting hit with patent infringement lawsuits. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  A group called Innovatio has been going around suing coffee shops and grocery stores for violating its patent on providing Wi-Fi in a public space. They say they own that idea. And if your coffee shop is providing Wi-Fi, you owe them money. They say they've made a strategic and business judgment not go after people using Wi-Fi in their own homes, quote, "at this stage." Another company called Boadin Technologies, LLC, has sued a bunch of media organizations, saying that one of its patents is infringed every time a word or phrase on your computer autocompletes. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  And a company in Vermont called MPHJ Technology has sent licensing letters to hundreds of businesses in Vermont, saying, any time an employee scans something to be emailed, that employee is infringing on MPHJ's patent. They say they own the idea of scanning a document and then emailing it. They're asking for around $1,000 per employee in damages. One of the companies they've approached is a nonprofit serving disabled people. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG>  There are five bills in Congress co-sponsored by Republicans and Democrats aimed at overhauling the patent system. This is still in the very early stages. And of course, it's hard to get any bill passed ever. But this issue has attracted one thing you need to get action in Washington, DC-- powerful people in business interests who want change-- the tech industry, the supermarket industry, the Consumer Electronics Association, Google, and of course, the mighty podcast lobby. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL>  That's one difference between now and when we first reported on this story two years ago. Now when we talk to people who are trying to reform the system, they seem hopeful. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Laura Sydell and Alex Blumberg. This story was a co-production with NPR News. Planet Money, which Alex co-founded, is also a co-production of our program and NPR News. Its website and free podcast is at npr.org/money. [MUSIC - "NO IDEA'S ORIGINAL" BY NAS] <SUBJECT:CHRIS CRAWFORD>  As far as the apostrophe S, I'm still not clear if you're trying to derive a specific meaning with respect to the apostrophe S. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  I'm Ira Glass. Back next week with more stories of This American Life. <HOST:ANNOUNCER> PRI-- Public Radio International. <EPISODE NUMBER:469> <EPISODE NAME:Hiding in Plain Sight> <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Morgan began taking Pilates with her mom from this woman named Mary Archbold during her sophomore year of high school. And the way the class worked, I guess, was like most Pilates classes. Mary Archbold would demonstrate poses, and they would watch her carefully. And Mary Archbold would spend a lot of the class walking around, correcting students' positioning, pushing down their shoulders and adjusting their hip alignment, standing right next to them, touching them. And I mention that only to say Morgan and everybody else in the class got a really good look at her close up for like an hour. <SUBJECT:MORGAN>  I was in her classes for about probably two times a week for a year, almost a year, until I realized that she didn't have two full arms. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  That seems crazy. <SUBJECT:MORGAN> Yeah. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  To be fair, a lot of people were fooled. Mary Archbold is very good at concealing something you would think would be hard to conceal. Her right arm is a regular, full arm. And her left arm stops at the elbow. And she does wear a prosthetic arm, but it's solid and the joints and hands don't move at all. If you actually looked at it, you would see it's obviously fake. But in addition to teaching classes, she performs professionally as a dancer, and has figured out ways to move so that the audience cannot tell. When she auditions, directors and choreographers can't tell, and the caster. And Morgan discovered the truth about Mary's arm only when Mary outed herself. She decided to do a show on stage about the experience of having just one arm. The show is called Jazz Hand. Get it? Jazz Hand-- the woman is a professional dancer-- Jazz Hand: Tales of a One-Armed Woman. And at the time this show was going up, Morgan was away at summer camp. And her mom gave her a postcard for the show, which had the title of the show on it and a picture of Mary showing clearly that she just has one arm. And still, somehow, Morgan and her mom did not suspect the truth. <SUBJECT:MORGAN>  And I hung the post card up in my room along with a bunch of other letters that people had sent me. And pretty soon, people in my cabin had started asking me. They said, "Oh, who is that?" And I said, "Oh, that's Mary. She's my Pilates teacher. She's great." And they were like, "Oh, does Mary only have one arm?" And I said, "No, Mary has two arms." And they said, "Oh, well in the postcard, she only has one arm." And I looked at them. And I was like, "No, no. Mary definitely has two arms. They must be doing some sort of special effects for the show. You know, Mary is a dancer. She was a cheerleader. I see her do Pilates all the time. I see her twice a week all the time. I go to her classes. I mean, Mary definitely has two arms." And they said, "OK! Why did she write a show about only having one arm?" And I said, "I don't know. She's creative!" <HOST:IRA GLASS>  But when Morgan calls her mom on the phone, she mentions what the girls at camp had said. And her mom reassures her, "No, no, no. Don't be silly. Of course Mary has two arms. We both know that." Her mom-- Karen is her name-- told me, sure, she knew that Mary's show had that subtitle, Tales of a One-Armed Woman. <SUBJECT:KAREN>  You know, I didn't really think anything of it. I thought it could have been like a metaphor for something else. Like working at a deficit, something like that. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  Yeah, yeah, yeah. She had one arm tied behind her back? <SUBJECT:KAREN>  Right. And then you start paying attention. And you realize, oh my god! <SUBJECT:MORGAN> And then, later that summer, I got home. And my mom said, "Morgan, I have something to tell you." And I was like, "What?" And she was like, "We're such idiots, and Mary does really only have one full arm." <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> So the fact that you went to her for an entire school year twice a week--? <SUBJECT:MORGAN> I was definitely embarrassed, and I definitely felt really, really stupid. And I know that-- I've spoken to some other women in our class about this. And they, also, they're like, "I felt so stupid." Because it's like, how do you not notice? You're spending so much time with someone. And it's just completely invisible. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Yeah. What was the buzz in class? Were there are a lot of people who didn't know? <SUBJECT:MORGAN> Oh, I think barely any people knew. <HOST:IRA GLASS> There's a famous quote that's attributed to an old-time magician named Harry Kellar who died back in 1922. Though as best as I can figure, nobody knows if Harry Kellar really said this. But apparently, he was such a master of misdirection, of getting an audience to look exactly where he wanted them to look and never look anywhere that he did not want them to look, that people claim that he said, quote, "A brass band playing at full blast can march openly across the stage behind me followed by a herd of elephants, yet no one will realize that they went by." Not that he ever tried that. Nobody thinks that. Well, today on our radio show, Hiding in Plain Sight, we meet people who do what Harry Kellar never achieved-- they are the elephant on stage and the brass band. And nobody notices. We will meet this woman who demonstrates Pilates in front of people for years without them noticing her fake arm. We will meet the man who brought down the Cali drug cartel from the inside. He was their own director of security. And more from WBEZ Chicago, it's This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I'm Ira Glass. Stay with us. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Act one, There's Something About Mary. So I guess I've now put this off long enough. It is time to finally Mary Archbold, one-armed woman. She was born that way. <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD>  I can hide it. It's definitely now a lot of stuff I do subconsciously. It's inherent in the way I move. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Do I have this right? You told one of our producers-- or maybe your husband told one of our producers-- that you were in a production of West Side Story, and they didn't know that you had one arm, most of the cast, until the cast party? <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> Yes, yes. We were about probably five weeks into a run of a three-month production. And we had a cast party, and someone pointed it out. And the majority of the people I danced with-- I mean, and these were my dance partners-- did not know. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And then is that moment for you a moment of horror or a moment of pride? <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> Half and half. There's the horror of what reaction is it going to be? <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Yeah. <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> And then there is the quiet pride that maybe you saw me as me before you saw me as an actor with a disability. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Do you feel like those two things are contradictory? <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> Yes. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Yeah, I'm not sure I understand that. It's like you're saying you want them to see you. <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> Mm-hm. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> But "you" includes the fact that you have only one full arm. <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> True, but it's not my leading characteristic. And oftentimes when people find it out first, that's sort of how they describe me. I'm like categorized, one-arm Mary. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> But everyone, when you see them, you see something, some superficial thing in their hair or the way they're dressed, or their age, or whatever it is, or their race, just whatever it is. <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> Right. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And they get classified. <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> And I'd be happy to be classified among any other things. You can call me the short girl. You can call me the brunette girl, the blue-eyed girl, whatever you want to say, just not the disabled girl. And it's funny. At home, with my family, with my son, with my husband, I never wear my arm. I'm a lot more functional without it. I can chop. I can do everything much easier without it. So maybe it's a vain thing that I go through all of this. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> A vanity thing? <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> Yeah, absolutely. And because I am a performer, it's sort of a professional necessity because otherwise, the only role I'll be called in for is wounded vet who just came home from Afghanistan. And this way, I get called in for housewife. I get called in for mom. <HOST:IRA GLASS> As for her techniques, for how she manages to misdirect people from noticing her hand, they are all startlingly simple. They're so simple that hearing them makes you realize how easily tricked we all are, how unobservant we are in so many situations. There are the basics. She always wears long sleeves to cover her prosthesis, so only the hand shows. Though the hand is a giveaway. It's worn down so the skin is shiny and doesn't look like skin. When she goes out on auditions for choreographers, she does big gestures and expressions. And it's over so quick, they actually never get a chance to notice that her wrist doesn't bend and her fingers don't move. When she needs to demonstrate poses in Pilates class that would expose the hand and arm and give her away, she just uses one of the students as a model. And in every situation, professional and personal-- <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD>  I stand on a certain side so that they really only see my real arm. It's all about misdirection. If you're looking very busily at my right side, you won't notice that my left side's not doing much. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  What about where you put your hand? Would you consciously keep it below people's sight line? <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> Oh, yes. Like at a party, I will not hold a drink in my hand. I will take a sip and put it back down, because if I meet somebody, they're going to want to shake my hand. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Oh, I see. And if you had a drink in your hand, you would have to put the drink down to shake your hand. <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> Right, I wouldn't just-- <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And that would be unnatural. <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> Right. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Because normally, what you would do is you'd switch from one hand to the other-- <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> And then shake hands. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And then shake. But you can't do that. So you-- <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> So I always put a drink down on a table. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> What else? <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> If someone comes at me-- and these are the people, oh, drives me crazy-- where they take both hands. The handholders when they meet people, and they're like, "Oh, it's so nice to meet you!" And they shake your hands, these people scare the hell out of me. So I'll how often cut them off at the pass. If they're going to reach out for my hands, I'll grab a hand and pretend to spin into them and spin out, like we're dancing. Or I say, "I'm a hugger. Give me a hug!" <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> But isn't a hug kind of a dangerous thing, too? Because if they feel your left arm against them, then-- <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> It won't touch them. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> It won't touch them? <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> Yes, only my right arm will. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Is it true that before you were with your husband, you would go out on dates with boys. And you wouldn't let them know originally? Like when they first were going out with you, you didn't let them know? That wasn't the first thing you would say? <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> No, absolutely not. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> So how far would it get? <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> Depends on the guy. I would get physical with certain guys, and we would get a certain amount. And they still wouldn't know. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> But you have your shirt still on, right? <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> Yes. <HOST:IRA GLASS> OK. <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> But if the shirt came off, funnily, the left sleeve would stay on. So the rest of the shirt could come off, but I would leave the left sleeve on. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Wait, and they wouldn't notice anything weird? <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> I mean, you were a college guy once. I mean, were you concerned about the left sleeve? If there was a shirt open, are you going to be looking? "Let me check out her elbow joint and see what that looks like." <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> But when you're that close to somebody, at some point, your hand touches their left arm, right? Like-- <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> Not if it's under a pillow! <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Because it's made of silicon-- not if it's under a pillow? <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> Yes, I would wrap my arm underneath a pillow that would be under their head so that they wouldn't realize that my hard arm is underneath them. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And then, with those boys, would there come a point with some of them where you would have to reveal, "Oh, by the way, just one arm?" <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> There was one guy that I actually really did like. And we went out on three dates. And on the fourth date-- and we had smoochy-smooched up until then, nothing too much-- but I felt like I needed to come clean with him. And I did at dinner. And he didn't take it so well. He came back at me with, "Why do you think so little of me that I would care?" <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> That's a good question. What did you say? <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD> I said, "I don't think so little of you." At the time, I said, "Maybe I think so little of me that you wouldn't want me with a prosthetic arm." <HOST:IRA GLASS> Of course, that was long ago. She's performed that whole Jazz Hand show about her experience as a one-armed person and invited her students and all kinds of people she'd been fooling to come and see it. At her wedding, because she had a sleeveless gown, she got opera gloves to conceal her arm. And she actually had them specially made to be long enough to cover her prosthesis. And then, in the end, she realized that everybody at the wedding already knew the truth. They already knew and accepted her, and she didn't wear the gloves. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Act two, Objects May be Closer Than They Appear. Anton DiSclafani has this story of a person, a human being, who is completely visible, in plain sight, close, nearby, but utterly, confusingly, confoundingly, frustratingly unreachable. <HOST:ANTON DISCLAFANI>  This February, my husband, Matt, found a wallet on the front steps of our apartment. He was walking our dog. The wallet looked custom-made, brown leather with braided edges and a Celtic design embossed on the front along with the initials, JJV. It had $300 inside and a license-- Julian Vinegas, which listed a St. Louis address a street away. "Was it stolen?" I asked my husband. "Stolen by someone not interested in cash?" It was a little bit of a mystery how a fully intact wallet came true reside, literally, on our front steps. It went without saying that we would return the wallet and cash to Julian Vinegas. I floated the idea of going to the police, but my husband rejected it. "The Wire," was all he said. Most of Matt's knowledge of the police comes from watching The Wire, and the cops on The Wire would've definitely stolen the money. I looked for Julian Vinegas on Facebook. He came up on my first search-- Julian Vinegas, St. Louis, Missouri. His security settings wouldn't let me post on his wall, so I sent him a message. This was so easy. But why stop there? My husband and I went to Julian's apartment. I pushed the buzzer, and after a couple of long minutes of waiting, a window raised above us. "Yeah?" a distinctly unfriendly voice called. "Are you Julian Vinegas?" He was not. Julian Vinegas had apparently moved, and he didn't leave a forwarding address. When we got home, I checked Facebook. There was no message from Julian, but there was a post on his wall about a concert he'd been to the night before. "Jane's Addiction was a blast last night. However, I somehow made it home without my phone, keys, and wallet. I never lose things! WTF. Anybody got any leads?" "I have a lead!" I shouted at the computer. "Check your messages!" A little while later, another post. "I'm starting to feel like maybe I stashed them in the house somewhere, but I've checked everywhere-- including the back of the toilet, the oven, and the freezer." "Check your messages!" Then I remember that Facebook puts all the messages sent you by people who aren't friends into a folder labeled "other," which many people don't know exists. I couldn't friend Julian because of his privacy settings. But I could see his friend list, so I friended several of his friends and messaged them. And I emailed Julian at likely Gmail addresses-- julianvinegas@gmail.com, julian.vinegas@gmail.com. No response. "You're getting obsessed," my husband said. But I was just getting started. There were other leads in Julian's wallet-- three frequent buyer cards from Smoothie King, a coupon card labelled Passport Club that promised 20% off hats at various hat stores, a business card for an attorney, a Sur la Table gift card, a FedEx gift card, a ticket voucher to a local movie theater, a receipt from a record store called Vintage Vinyl, where he bought season six of Weeds, a very faded student ID from the University of Puget Sound. I called the University of Puget Sound. The woman who answered was certain she would be able to give me Julian's info. She said the University of Puget Sound kept very good track of its alumni. But there was no Julian Vinegas in their databases. I called Vintage Vinyl, but they'd never heard of Julian Vinegas and had no record of him. I called the number on the attorney's business card. But the woman who answered refused to give out any information. I called Smoothie King, where Julian had amassed three punch cards. The woman there said she had not heard of him, but that I could leave the wallet at the store. And if he came back, they'd return it, which seemed like a poor way of doing things for various reasons. I still hadn't gotten a reply on Facebook. On Julian's wall, I saw that he went to something called Metal Mondays at a St. Louis bar called [? Limits ?]. I called the bar and left a message. I thought surely somebody would get back to me-- one of his friends or the bar. They did not. I read his wall a dozen times a day. A week passed, and then another. He seemed to have given up on the wallet, mentioned it less and less. I got to know Julian Vinegas. I learned that he hung out with friends a lot. He partied a lot. He liked music a lot. He didn't seem to particularly care about punctuation. And though I had so much access to his thoughts, to his whereabouts, I was unable to let him know I existed. I felt like a stalker. I felt like a ghost. And then, Julian posted that he was going to a Raekwon concert at the Gargoyle. "This is it!" I thought. "If he's not there, I'll turn over the wallet to the police, crooked cops be damned." Matt, who had become my unwilling accomplice, sat with me at the bottom of the stairs at the Gargoyle. I knew exactly what Julian looked like, because I had looked at dozens of his pictures. But just to be safe, I asked men if they were Julian even when they only vaguely resembled him. One guy told me, "No." And his friend yelled out, "But he could be!" We waited. The concert was going to start soon, and I didn't have any proof that Julian was going to be there except a Facebook post from a few days before. And he had been out since 3:31 AM last night, so I thought maybe he was tired? Then, he walked down the stairs. I recognized him immediately. "Are you Julian Vinegas?" I asked. Before he could even confirm that he was Julian Vinegas, I handed him his wallet. "Wow," he said. Immediately, he tried to give me $40, which I didn't take. He seemed happy to see his wallet, but not euphoric. This moment, a complete stranger not only finding his wallet but going to such great lengths to return it, somehow did not seem as improbable to him as to me. We chatted for a few minutes. It was kind of like meeting a celebrity. You think it will just be so incredible that your mind won't be able to handle actually meeting someone who you know so much about. And then it's like, yeah, your mind does handle it. Julian had moved two blocks away from me to another apartment. He'd lost the same exact wallet twice before. "Really?" I asked. "Yes," he said, "and it always gets returned to me like a boomerang." I wanted to say, "No, it is not like a boomerang. It got returned to you because the wallet became my problem, and I focused my obsessive mind on it and went to lengths that most people would not." But I didn't say that. We saw things differently, he and I. And I realized, standing there, that I didn't know Julian Vinegas at all. I thought I did. But I didn't. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Anton DiSclafani. Her book, The Yonahlossee Writing Camp for Girls, comes out next summer. Coming up, Coke Brothers. And by that, of course, I mean guys who sell cocaine for a living and how a guy who they knew and trusted sent them to prison. Car-tel Talk in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. <HOST:IRA GLASS> It's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass. Each week on our program, of course, we choose a theme, bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program, Hiding in Plain Sight, stories of people doing just that. We've arrived at act three of our show. Act three, The Seven Year Snitch. At its height in the early '90s, the Cali drug cartel controlled 80% of all the cocaine in the world. It was a $7 billion a year international business. But the cartel collapsed. Its former leaders went to prison, mostly because of one man, a high-ranking cartel insider who decided that he wanted out, and he went to the authorities. Though I have to say that "going to the authorities" is nothing like a guy in Jersey ratting out a mafia boss here in the United States. This was Columbia, a country with no functioning judicial system. The cartel had bought off Colombian cops, prosecutors, politicians, judges. Karen Lowe tells the story of the man who stood up to all of that while staying and working right under the noses of the Cali godfathers. <HOST:KAREN LOWE>  The man who took down the Cali cartel was named Jorge Salcedo. He's in witness protection in the US now. In order to talk to him, my producer and I met him at a hotel near the beach in Southern California. Jorge was a little nervous around the mic. <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO>  Is it going to be that close all the time? <SUBJECT:PRODUCER>  It will be that close, yeah, yeah. Yeah, <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> You're going to be tired. <SUBJECT:PRODUCER> I will get tired. That's true. <HOST:KAREN LOWE> Jorge Salcedo is a greying, soft-spoken engineer who loves literature and tinkering with things. And that's who he was before all this started. He was doing well in Colombia. He ran an assembly line that made car batteries. He was designing a way to recycle motor oil. And he was bored. Jorge's father had been a high ranking member of the military. And now, in his 40s, Jorge wanted that kind of prestige and adventure. So he joined the Colombian Army Reserves, became a surveillance and intelligence specialist. And then, one day in 1989, Jorge was working at his battery factory in Bogota when he got a visit from an old friend. The guy's name was Mario del Basto. Mario had recently quit the military, and he had a request for Jorge. Here's how Jorge recalls it. <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> He just came to my office. And he was very secretive about what was going to happen. He told me, "You need to come with me to Cali." I said, "Where are we going?" "I'll tell you later. Just come, don't ask me." I trusted him so much that I said, "I don't see anything bad." And he said, "We're going to go to The Intercontinental Hotel, and they're going to be calling us. And just wait for what they're going to tell us, because frankly, I don't know what it is." <HOST:KAREN LOWE> The people who were going to be calling were members of the Cali cartel. Since leaving the military, Mario had gone to work for the cartel, and Jorge knew that. But he got on the plane with Mario anyhow. I asked Jorge why. Jorge said he suspected that he might be meeting with some mid-level Cali guys, and that seemed OK with him. It intrigued him. He thought it might even be a business opportunity. I kept asking Jorge to clarify. Do you think it was OK to do business with the drug cartel? <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO>  You're asking me? I see that your questions go to, "How can he accept something like this?" to, "How corrupt is he already?" But when you are a Colombian, you get used to something that is not conceivable other ways. Our country has never been in peace. I have been all the time living under violent circumstances. <HOST:KAREN LOWE>  When he got to Cali, Jorge was surprised to find that his meeting was not with some mid-level guys, but with the cartel's four godfathers. And what they wanted from him was equally surprising. They wanted help in their war with the Medellin cartel. You've probably heard of Pablo Escobar, the ruthless leader of the Medellin cartel. They wanted Jorge to help them kill him. <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> I was introduced by Mario who just said, "Gentlemen, here is Jorge Salcedo, the person whom I told you about." And the first sentences ever pronounced, "Well, we have been told about your connections with a group of mercenaries in England." <HOST:KAREN LOWE> This is why they reached out to Jorge. While he was in the Army Reserves, Jorge had come in contact with a group of British mercenaries, a crew of about a dozen men who ran secretive, off-the-books missions. Jorge was their primary contact in Colombia, and the cartel knew that. They wanted to hire these British mercenaries to kill Escobar. They told Jorge-- <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> "As you know, we've been attacked by Pablo Escobar. And we're very worried for our families." And then, they were very explicit with their plans. They got very much in detail. They said, "We're going to get him in this place." It was already a plan that they had developed. So when I was told, "This is what we're going to do," at that moment, I knew they had made me aware of a big secret. And I had no way out. <HOST:KAREN LOWE> No way out. I know, this is the way it always happens in the movies, right? But it's true. The cartel had just laid out a plan to kill Escobar in a very detailed way. And now Jorge knew. Jorge says at that moment the conversation in his head went something like this. "I'll help take down Escobar, but I won't be involved in any drug trafficking or anything dirty. Once Escobar's gone, I'll take my money, leave, maybe start my own security business." I asked him over and over again about this. And he kept saying, "You pretty much have to be a Colombian to understand." Escobar was out of control, murdering people on a scale that was shocking, even for a drug lord. One notorious incident, he blew up an airliner with 107 people on it because he wanted to kill one man, a presidential candidate who, it turned out, wasn't even on the plane. Escobar was terrorizing the country. So Jorge did want Escobar dead. Nearly everyone did. Over the next four years, with the help of the British mercenaries, the cartel tried twice to kill Pablo Escobar. But they didn't succeed. Eventually, Escobar was killed in a shootout with Colombian authorities in 1993. Meanwhile, Jorge had risen to chief of security for the Cali cartel. Now his job was to protect the head godfather, Miguel Rodriguez Orejuela, his four wives, and all their children. <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> My presence was required every time that he was going to move. He would tell me in advance what sort of movements were expected. <HOST:KAREN LOWE> Jorge was actually into the work. It gave him a way to indulge his military and technical skills. But he was originally hired to help kill Escobar. So the day after the authorities shot him, Jorge asked to speak with Miguel, the head of the cartel. <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> And basically, the conversation was, "My mission is over. I'm happy to see that nothing happened to your family, to yourself. But it is the time for me to retake the original life that I had years ago." And he said, "No, no, no, Jorge. You're very valuable to us. Don't even think about it. Much better times are coming." They had some sort of gratitude for what I had done, but on the other hand, it may be that gratitude was that if he leaves, he knows too much and I have to do something else. I didn't look at that under that perspective. <INTERVIEWER:KAREN LOWE>  Really? In all that time, it didn't occur to you that you had too much knowledge to leave? <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> I was, in a way, a little too naive. <HOST:KAREN LOWE>  However he justified his role-- for instance, Jorge says he never saw drugs, he didn't touch a gram of the stuff-- there was no way he could escape the violence. He heard about grisly murders and cartel assassins. Once, he was at a hacienda as four suspected snitches in other rooms were strangled and then disemboweled. <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> And I just said, "Next is me, maybe in this very night." So that was a time where also I said, "Oh my god, I don't belong here. This is not my world. What am I doing here?" <HOST:KAREN LOWE>  Jorge was stuck in a cartel that was growing quickly. With Escobar gone and his organization in disarray, the Cali cartel soaked up Medellin's drug business. A US Justice Department official told Congress that, at its peak, the cartel was, quote, "The most prolific and successful criminal enterprise in history." But there was one way the cartel was still vulnerable. If you could get cartel members extradited to the United States, then they could be prosecuted for bringing drugs into the country. And while Colombia was notoriously soft on the cartels, the US had no problem handing down tough sentences. But in the early 1990s, the cartels found a way around that, too. Colombia outlawed extradition, made it unconstitutional. Cali cartel attorneys had actually helped craft the law's language. But the extradition ban didn't cover everyone in the cartel. There was a kind of loophole. William Rempel is a reporter who spent more than 10 years reporting Jorge's story for a book he wrote called At the Devil's Table. <SUBJECT:WILLIAM REMPEL>  There's a technicality, and the law also included the fact that this protection extended only to Colombians-- Colombian citizens. So anybody in the Cali cartel-- and they employed Guatemalans, Cubans, Chileans, Argentinians-- all of those members of the cartel were still subject to extradition. And some of those people had risen to high places. <HOST:KAREN LOWE> First among these people in high places was the cartel's accountant, Guillermo Pallomari. Pallomari was Chilean, which meant he could be extradited. He also had intimate knowledge and computerized records of all the cartel's transactions, including bribes to officials. If the authorities nabbed Pallomari, they'd have a blueprint of nearly every act of corruption the cartel was involved in. He presented such a risk to the cartel that they asked him to go into hiding. The Cali godfather, Miguel Rodriguez Orejuela, wasn't one to accept risks like this. Miguel was a no-nonsense kind of guy dubbed The Lemon because of his sour disposition. And even though Miguel liked Pallomari, Miguel knew something had to be done. So he talked to Jorge. <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> Miguel tells me, very sadly, "You know, Pallomari has served us very much. But we have agreed that he needs to die. So there is a killer with the name of Yusti. And it's your task to coordinate with this killer that he kills him." At that particular moment, I was praying. I was saying, "Oh my God, you work it out so I will not do this. Just help me. I'm not going to do it." On the other side, I was just being a candidate for an Oscar Award by my performance. I said, "No problem. I'll take care of the thing." <HOST:KAREN LOWE> Jorge actually kind of hated Guillermo Pallomari. The accountant had been behind some business decisions for the cartel that he disagreed with, and he thought Pallomari had a tendency to be sloppy. But still, Jorge says he never ordered anyone to be killed. Going after Escobar was one thing. He was a national menace. But this was different. So he says he made up his mind. He wasn't going to kill Pallomari. That left him two options. He could leave or, reporter William Rempel says, he could take down the entire Cali drug cartel. He choose option number two. <SUBJECT:WILLIAM REMPEL>  And the only way to bring down the cartel would be to actually save the life of the accountant who could deliver such a terrible blow to the inner secrets of the cartel, and to help the United States and the Colombian government capture Miguel, the boss of the bosses. <HOST:KAREN LOWE> How was Jorge going to do this? He couldn't trust anyone in Colombia. There was no way to know who might be working for the cartel. And so Jorge did the only thing he could think of, the same thing you or I or the average seventh grader might think of if we needed help taking down an international crime syndicate. Jorge went to a phone booth he knew wasn't tapped and called the CIA. He didn't know anyone at the CIA, of course, so he called the main number for CIA Headquarters in Langley, Virginia. He got the front desk. <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> Let me tell you what I said. I said, "I am calling from Cali, Columbia. And I just have very valuable information about the head of the Cali cartel, and I--" <HOST:KAREN LOWE> The operator asked him for the name of the person he wanted to talk to. He explained he didn't have that. "How about an extension?" she said. Well, no. He didn't have that either. Again, William Rempel. <SUBJECT:WILLIAM REMPEL> It ended with her saying, "Well, maybe you should call back when you know who you want to talk to." <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO>  I walk across the square. And then again, I was myself praying, help me, God. I'm totally alone. There's nothing I can do. <HOST:KAREN LOWE> Then, Jorge stumbled on one another long-shot solution. He knew a lawyer in Florida who had done some work for the cartel, and Jorge happened to read in the newspaper that US authorities were after the lawyer. So Jorge contacted the attorney with a pretty simple proposition. Put me in touch with American authorities, and I'll talk. And they'll be so grateful to you, it'll get you leniency. This worked. The lawyer knew someone in US Customs in Miami. That person knew someone in the Drug Enforcement Administration. Soon, Jorge was on the phone with two DEA agents, David Mitchell and Chris Feistl, who were already on the ground in Colombia. They agreed to meet in a cane field 45 minutes outside of Cali. But Chris says Jorge had a few demands. Jorge was scared of any Colombians, because they might be collaborating with the cartel. <SUBJECT:CHRIS FEISTL>  Well, before we got there, Jorge said on the phone that he had two conditions to us meeting. One was he said you have to come alone. And I said, "There's no way I'm coming alone. I'm coming with my partner. We don't go anywhere by ourselves in Cali." And he said, "OK, that was fine." But then, he also said, "I don't want to see anybody who's Colombian. If you bring a Colombian with you or someone who even appears to be Colombian, the deal's off." And I told him, "Jorge, don't worry. When you see us, you won't be disappointed." <HOST:KAREN LOWE> Both agents were blond, both over 6' tall. <SUBJECT:CHRIS FEISTL> And when Jorge arrived and he started walking up to us, and my partner, Dave, said, "Hey, Jorge, are we American enough looking for you?" And that kind of broke the ice, because it was obviously a tension-filled moment for him as well as for us. And Jorge smiled, and he laughed a little bit. And we got down to business. <HOST:KAREN LOWE> First, they went after Miguel. Other cartel members had recently been nabbed, and Miguel was getting paranoid-- so paranoid that he didn't let his own security chief, Jorge, know which apartment he was staying in. Jorge knew the building, but nothing more. But Jorge told the agents that Miguel liked to work very late. They did some nighttime surveillance and noticed that the lights stayed on in only two apartments-- one on the fourth floor and one on the eighth floor. So one night, Jorge calls Miguel's driver. The lights flick on. It's the fourth floor. They had him. Three days later on the morning of July 15, 1995, the two DEA agents rolled into the neighborhood with dozens of hidden Colombian National Police-- hidden, Chris says, the only way they could think of. <SUBJECT:CHRIS FEISTL> We wanted to get something that would kind of fit in at that hour of the morning. And the best thing that we could come up with would be chicken trucks. It was a pretty messy situation, and some of the troops were not very happy. I don't think it was a very comfortable ride for them. <HOST:KAREN LOWE> Jorge didn't go on the raid. He kept his distance to maintain his cover and waited for his phone to ring. The first call he got was from one of his security guys in the cartel. <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> I got an early call from somebody saying they had penetrated the area and they're going to be searching the apartment. <HOST:KAREN LOWE> So although he initiated the raid on the apartment, Jorge was still the cartel security chief. And he had a job to do. He told his men to get out of there, it was too late. They couldn't save Miguel. <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> And my instruction was everybody leave the area. I don't want anybody arrested for any reason. I was warning my people, but I was more than warning. I was covering up myself. I was just playing the charade. <HOST:KAREN LOWE> And then, a problem. The DEA had kept the target of the raid a secret from Colombian authorities till the last minute. And now, a Colombian prosecutor met them at the building and told the DEA they didn't have the right paperwork to raid Miguel's apartment. For 90 minutes, the DEA waited, frustrated. Once the paperwork was finally fixed and the DEA made it into the apartment, three people were there-- two housekeepers and Miguel's driver. Jorge had told the DEA, if you see the driver, Miguel is there. The driver was always with Miguel. <SUBJECT:CHRIS FEISTL> I turned to my partner, Dave, and I said, "We're in the right place. He's here. Now, we just need to find him." <HOST:KAREN LOWE> They searched all the rooms and grilled Miguel's driver. Nothing. Meanwhile, across town, Jorge was hanging out with the cartel members at a bakery, trying to look like the security boss while also picking up clues to feed the agents. He walked over to Miguel's son to demonstrate his concern. <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> I just came to ask, "Is there anything you know?" He said, "No, nothing. He's inside there, but hopefully he will go into his vault." And I said, "Does he have a vault?" "Oh, yeah, he does." "OK, so let's pray for the best and wait. There's nothing we can do about that." And at that time, a beeper started sounding coming from the agents. <HOST:KAREN LOWE> He goes to a pay phone and contacts the agents. Again here's Chris. <SUBJECT:CHRIS FEISTL> And then, after hours of Jorge sitting there and hearing different bits of information, we were able to learn that there was a secret compartment in the apartment, and that it may have been in one of the bathrooms. And once concealed inside that secret compartment, it would be very difficult for us to find. <HOST:KAREN LOWE> So they checked the bathrooms. Again, nothing. Hours passed. The Colombians involved in the raid got so bored that they started watching soccer on one of Miguel's big screen TVs. But Jorge managed to give the agents one additional clue. Jorge told them to compare Miguel's apartment with the others in the building, see if any differences stood out. Chris noticed one of the bathrooms wasn't like the others. It was smaller. And one of the cabinet doors seemed off. It hit the toilet when you tried to open it. <SUBJECT:CHRIS FEISTL> And I got down on the floor. And first of all, I noticed that the floor was wet, that someone had urinated on the floor. And I thought, "Well, either they were just being sloppy or that was a sign that they didn't want anybody to really get down on the ground and start looking around." So I got down on the floor. And as I was looking under one of the cabinets, I was able to see a very thin tube, like a plastic tube, coming out of the wall under the cabinet and up under the sink. And I thought, that's really strange. If he's anywhere, it has to be behind that wall. <HOST:KAREN LOWE> The agents brought in sledge hammers and drills and started boring into the cement walls. By now, though, the cartel had called in some [? chits ?]. A regional Attorney General showed up and ordered the agents out of the building. They tried to argue, but it was over. Chris called Jorge and told him the news. <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> I felt devastated. I learned what my fate was going to be. <HOST:KAREN LOWE> Jorge had put everything on the line for this raid, and they'd failed. And now the cartel was trying to figure out who snitched. Who led the authorities to Miguel's apartment? <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> I said, "Well, so far, nobody has pinpointed me. And nothing was going to link me." I quickly saw the thing. I've never been at the apartment. There's no way I can be blamed for knowing about the vault, so I'm clear. <HOST:KAREN LOWE>  Not exactly. Jorge knew that if he was going to avoid suspicion, he had to amp up his performance as security chief. So his next move was to urgently find out who fed information about Miguel to authorities-- to essentially investigate himself. Jorge's plan was to cast doubt on others. First up, Miguel's driver, Castillo. Castillo had been in the apartment during the DEA raid, so maybe he'd be able to pinpoint the leaker. Miguel's son told Jorge to meet Castillo someplace 45 minutes outside of Cali. Along for the ride were two other cartel members. They left at 5:00 AM with Jorge at the wheel. One sat next to him. The other sat behind him. <INTERVIEWER:KAREN LOWE> Were you afraid that you were being set up to be killed? <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> Absolutely. I was just concerned that I have somebody behind me who could just put a rope on my neck, and you're over. <HOST:KAREN LOWE> When they met with the driver, the only information he offered was that the agents kept calling their informant Patricia. That was true. Any time the agents got on the phone with their informant-- who, of course, was Jorge-- they called him Patricia. When Jorge heard the driver, Castillo, bring up his raid code name, he jumped at the opportunity it provided. <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> And I just moved the conversation to, "That's very good news because we can now establish our whole investigation towards women that had been in the apartment. It's going to be about 5% of visitors. So how many women have been there?" So I started exploiting the situation, trying to derail the investigation in a way that was favorable to me. <HOST:KAREN LOWE> Rerunning that scene in his head as they rode back, Jorge worried that he appeared a bit too enthusiastic about the tidbit Castillo gave. Of course they would know Patricia was a code name. The DEA wouldn't be stupid enough to use an informant's real name. Jorge had to find out what the cartel guys knew. <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> So I quickly got to Cali. And then, I said, "I need to stop here in a bank." The person who runs the bank is a lady friend of mine. I need to talk to her just a minute." So I step out of the car about five minutes. And the minute I started on, they started talking again. <HOST:KAREN LOWE> How did Jorge know they started talking again? Because he'd been recording them the whole time. He'd stashed a little tape recorder in a compartment of the driver's side door. <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> Too easy. I just had to pull my left hand down. I knew where the record button is. Click it, leave it. And I was careful, very careful, to touch the record and not the play button. You can imagine. [MEN SPEAKING IN SPANISH] <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> In the tape, there was a point where they make a comment, [SPEAKING SPANISH]. "Do you notice how he became after I mentioned Patricia?" And he said, "Well, he's acting funny. Definitely, he's kind of nervous." That was the conversation between these two guys. [MEN SPEAKING IN SPANISH] <HOST:KAREN LOWE> While they were talking, Jorge was in the bank pretending to visit a woman. The guys in the car suddenly hear this buzz. [VIBRATION AUDIBLE] <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> I had the beeper that I had been using with Chris and David on vibration mode in the trunk of the car. So they were talking. And there it goes, brrp, brrp, this beep. And I think they were listening to music some. But they were having a conversation about, it has to be me. [BEEPER BUZZES] <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> And then, there was a third one that [INAUDIBLE] it, brrp, brrp. And all of  a sudden, they say, "Oh my god, what's that? It's a microphone!" [BEEPING SOUND] <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> It's a stupid thing because microphones don't sound. They produce no sound. But these guys were-- and I was precisely coming out of there. So what this guy does is turns the switch, the air conditioning starts shhh uhhh to cover up, to make noise to cover up. And he said, "He's coming. He's coming." <HOST:KAREN LOWE> When Jorge listened to the whole tape later, his chest caved. Now he knew for sure he was under suspicion. He and his family were in grave danger. Plus, there was still a hit out on Pallomari the accountant. And Miguel was still at large in a new safehouse. Jorge couldn't risk any more. It was time to call in the agents, Chris and Dave. Again, they met in the cane field outside of Cali. Just like the raid on Miguel's house and the two attempts to kill Pablo Escobar, the meeting quickly turned into a fiasco. Instead of the empty field they expected, the place was swarmed with taxis and police cars. Turns out a taxi driver had been murdered in the field the night before. Chris says it wasn't long before a police officer asked what they were doing there. <SUBJECT:CHRIS FEISTL> And the routine questioning led to asking for ID. And we assured him that we weren't doing anything. So my partner, Dave Mitchell, had a lot of Colombian pesos. And we basically went to the police officials and said, "Here, take this money. Leave us alone. We're not doing anything wrong." and his response was, "If you're not doing anything wrong, why are you giving me some money?" It was a good question, because I didn't have an answer for it at that point. And finally, Jorge just said-- <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> Well, this is embarrassing to say. But this is the thing. These gentlemen here, they're foreigners. And we're gay. We're just doing some gay stuff. <SUBJECT:CHRIS FEISTL> And we all had a laugh at that. And the police officials had a laugh at it, too. And they left us alone. So we were able to continue our conversation and continue with our strategizing and plotting of the next raid. <HOST:KAREN LOWE> This time, they knew where to go thanks to a slip-up by a low level cartel worker. A messenger for Miguel's wife had openly talked in front of Jorge about where Miguel's new hideout was. They nailed everything down ahead of time, did all the paperwork and hand-picked a prosecutor. They were working with the Colombian Navy, which Jorge was pretty sure wasn't compromised. The apartment building was near a mountain, so instead of driving up to the front door, 35 guys descended down extremely difficult terrain to the building. But only five made it into the building in time for the raid. The rest got tangled on the mountainside. They broke open Miguel's door with a sledgehammer and raced through the apartment. Here's Chris. <SUBJECT:CHRIS FEISTL> And with the commotion as we continued to make our way through the apartment, I heard one of the Colombian Navy officials say, "I got him, I got him!" And I was like, "OK, well, that's good news." And I was able to run in the back down the hallway and into the master bedroom and into the closet area. And I saw the Colombian Navy official holding Miguel by the shoulder on his shirt. And he grabbed him right as he was trying to access the secret compartment. So had we been another five minutes or so, we probably wouldn't have apprehended him. <HOST:KAREN LOWE> The Colombian officials were jubilant and took turns taking trophy pictures of themselves with Miguel. But Jorge wasn't so happy. He wouldn't be safe until the DEA got him and Pallomari out of the country. Next, the DEA struck a deal with Pallomari. He would testify against the cartel in exchange for safe passage to the United States-- which had an unfortunate side effect. It meant Jorge would have to wait to get out. The DEA was tied up transferring Pallomari and his family. Having to wait for days, Jorge was terrified. And he knew it was time to confess the truth to his wife, to let her know their lives were about to change completely and permanently. She knew he worked for the Cali cartel, but had no idea he was working with the DEA to bring them down. <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> It was like three days before leaving that I said, "I need to talk to you." And I told her, "We need to talk. And I don't want it to happen here in our house." So I took her out to a field close to the house. All I remember is we were sitting on the grass. And very flatly, I just said, "I need you to know this. I am the person behind the capture of Miguel Rodriguez. And what we need to do is get out of everything we have here. We need to abandon what we have. We need to leave the city, the country." It was such a big shock to her. <INTERVIEWER:KAREN LOWE> How did she react? <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> SIlent for about 30 seconds, staring at me. And there were tears from both of us. We just grabbed our hands strongly. And she said, "OK, I understand what you have done. So let's face it. It's a fact. When are we leaving?" I said, "I don't know." <HOST:KAREN LOWE> 10 days after he went into hiding and 7 and 1/2 years since he joined the cartel, Jorge Salcedo boarded a plane in Bogota bound for Miami. <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> It was already checked, ready to go. The engines were started already inside the hanger. They opened the doors and we were cleared to take off. When we took off, I just said, "Thank God I'm out." That's it. <SUBJECT:CHRIS FEISTL> I'd put him right up there with one of the best assets that we've ever had. <HOST:KAREN LOWE> Again, DEA agent Chris Feistl. <SUBJECT:CHRIS FEISTL> I've told him before, I don't know how you did what you did, because I don't know if I would have the courage or the guts to do what you did, to take that chance and to put it all on the line to try to do the right thing. So I had great admiration for him for that. <HOST:KAREN LOWE>  In 1997, Columbia lifted its ban on extradition. Jorge and Guillermo Pallomari, both safe in the States, provided testimony that led to the conviction of many of Colombia's top drug bosses and their enforcers. Scores of police and legislators were fired or sent to prison. The Cali godfathers, Miguel and Gilberto Rodriguez Orejuela, are currently serving 30-year prison sentences in Miami for international drug trafficking. Jorge lives in witness protection in the US. He says his conscience is clear and he's at peace with what he did. Wherever he lives, none of his neighbors or coworkers know anything about his past, but Jorge knows. During our interview, a helicopter flew overhead and he had to stop. Jorge told me he's flown lots of helicopters. <SUBJECT:JORGE SALCEDO> I love flying helicopters. <HOST:KAREN LOWE> Another time when a chopper flew by, Jorge was even able to identify the manufacturer. It was a Bell, American made. The guy knows his stuff. He knows what he did. He just can't talk about it anymore-- the most important thing about his life, the biggest thing he ever accomplished, and no one has a clue. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Karen Lowe in California. Thanks to William Rempel, whose book about Jorge Salcedo, At the Devil's Table, was so helpful to us in putting together this story. Though both William Rempel and Karen Lowe have interviewed Salcedo, neither has any idea where he lives, what city or state. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Our program was produced today by Brian Reed with Alex Blumberg, Ben Calhoun, Sarah Koenig, Jonathan Menjivar, Lisa Pollak, Robyn Semien, and Nancy Updike. Our senior producer is Julie Snyder. Seth Lind is our operations director. Emily Condon's our office manager. Music help from Damien Graef and Rob Geddes. Production help from [? Tariq Fudha ?] and Matt Kielty. This is our last show with Matt. He is off to work with our colleagues at Radio Lab. We wish him the very, very best. We hope maybe he'll teach those slackers how to mix or something. [ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS] <SUBJECT:MARY ARCHBOLD>  I mean, you were a college guy once. I mean, were you concerned about the left sleeve? <HOST:IRA GLASS>  I'm Ira Glass, back next week with more stories of This American Life. <HOST:ANNOUNCER> PRI, Public Radio International. <EPISODE NUMBER:454> <EPISODE NAME:Mr. Daisey and the Apple Factory> <HOST:IRA GLASS> OK. I am holding a new iPhone 4S in my hand. This is the one that you can talk to and it talks back. It's a program called Siri. So let's try this. I'm just going to hold it up to the microphone here and push a button. [BEEP] <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Siri, where do you come from? [BEEP] <SUBJECT:SIRI> I, Siri, was designed by Apple in California. [BEEP] <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Where were you manufactured? [BEEP] <SUBJECT:SIRI> I'm not allowed to say. [BEEP] <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Why? [BEEP] <SUBJECT:SIRI> Good question. Anything else I can do for you? <HOST:IRA GLASS> Can I say, I love, especially, "I am not allowed to say"? Because it implies that Siri somehow knows the answer, but she's just not allowed to tell me, which is insane, because she's a machine. Especially because-- flip over the phone. Right here, on the back, it's printed-- "Assembled in China." Which, we all know anyway, it's not like this is some big secret. We all know that stuff is made in China. Our phones, our computers, our clothes, our household goods. A couple weeks ago, I saw this one-man show where this guy did something onstage I thought was really kind of amazing. He took this fact that we all already know, this fact that our stuff is made overseas in maybe not the greatest working conditions, and he made the audience actually feel something about that fact. Which is really quite a trick. You really have to know how to tell a story to be able to pull something like that off. And I bring this up because today we are excerpting that story here on the radio show. The guy's name is Mike Daisey, and he makes his living doing monologues on stage. He's been doing that for years, though you're going to hear, in this story, that he turns himself into an amateur reporter during the course of the story, using some investigative techniques, once he gets going, I think, very few reporters would ever try, and finding lots of stuff I hadn't heard or seen anywhere else. Not like this. From WBEZ Chicago, it's This American Life, distributed by Public Radio International. I'm Ira Glass. Today on our program, Mike Daisey takes us where Siri fears to tread. What you're about to hear is an excerpt of Mike Daisey's show, which he adapted for the radio and performed for a small audience. Here is Mike Daisey. <HOST:MIKE DAISEY> My only hobby is technology. I love technology. I love everything about it. I love looking at technology. I love comparing one piece of technology with another. I love reading rumors about technology that doesn't exist yet. I love browsing technology. I love buying technology. I love opening technology. Even when it's in that bubble packaging, I love opening it. I love the smell of a new piece of technology, that sort of burnt PVC smell. When you run electricity through it for the first time, I love that. And of all the kinds of technology that I love in the world, I love the technology that comes from Apple the most, because I am an Apple aficionado. I'm an Apple partisan. I'm Apple fanboy. I'm a worshiper in the cult of Mac. I've been to the House of Jobs. I've walked the stations of his cross. I have knelt before his throne. And like so many of you who may be members of this religion with me, you may know that it can be difficult at times to keep the faith. And I have strayed now and again. In the late '90s, I did sleep with a Windows system or two. But who didn't, really? But for the most part, I have been faithful. But I do think it's important to understand where I sit in that hierarchy of Apple geeks for the purposes of our story. And so the best way I know to describe it is to say that I am at the level of geekishness where, to relax, after performances like this one, sometimes I will go back to my apartment and I will field strip my MacBook Pro into its 43 component pieces. I will clean them with compressed air. And I will put them back together again. It soothes me. So the truth is, I never would have questioned this religion. I never would have looked deeply at this belief system, because it gave me so much pleasure, if it hadn't been for the pictures. One day, I was relaxing on the internet, which for me means reading Macintosh news sites, which, I should specify, have no actual news in them. They are instead filled with rumors about what Apple will do next, written exclusively by people who have no goddamn idea what Apple will do next. But for some reason, I find this soothing. So I'm reading one of those news sites when this article gets posted. And it's about the fact that someone bought an iPhone, and when they got it, it wasn't blank. It had information on it from inside the factory. And in fact, in the camera roll, there were pictures on it from inside the factory. And they posted these pictures into the article. And I looked at these pictures, and they took my breath away. They're not very good pictures. They're just testing that the camera on the phone works. They're not of anything. But I'll never forget them. There were four of them. First, there was a stack of pallets, wooden pallets, stacked up. And the second one was the edge of a conveyor belt. And the third was totally out of focus. It could just be an enormous space. And the fourth was a woman. She doesn't know her picture is being taken. She is looking off in another direction. She is wearing a clean suit. She has no expression on her face. And I looked at these pictures. And I downloaded these pictures to my desktop, and I put them in a folder on my desktop. And in the weeks and months that followed, I found myself returning to them again and again. Almost compulsively, I would mouse over there, and I would fan them across my desktop, and I would look at them. Who are these people? Because you have to understand, I have dedicated an embarrassing amount of my life to the study of these machines. I'm an amateur, but I'm a dedicated amateur. I understand, as best I can, how the hardware works and how the software rests on the hardware. And in all that time, until I saw those pictures, it was only then I realized, I had never thought, ever, in a dedicated way, about how they were made. It's actually hard now to reconstruct what I did think, I think. What I thought is they were made by robots. Like I had an image in my mind that I now realize I just stole from a 60 Minutes story about Japanese automotive plants. I just copy and pasted that. I was like, pwop, Command V, pwop. It looks like that. But smaller, because they're laptops. I started to think how, if this phone has four pictures on it, taken by hand, in testing, then every iPhone has four pictures on it, taken in testing. Every iPhone in the world. By hand. I started to think. And that's always a problem for any religion, the moment when you begin to think. Shenzhen is a city without history. The people who live there will tell you that, because 31 years ago, Shenzhen was a small town. They had little reed huts, little reed walkways between the huts. The men would fish in the late afternoon. I hear it was lovely. Today, Shenzhen is a city of 14 million people. It is larger than New York City, depending on how you count it. It's the third largest city in all of China, and it is the place where almost all of your crap comes from. And the most amazing thing is, almost no one in America knows its name. Isn't that remarkable? That there's a city where almost all of our crap comes from, and no one knows its name? I mean, we think we do know where our crap comes from. We're not ignorant. We think are crap comes from China. Right? Kind of a generalized way. China. But it doesn't come from China. It comes from Shenzhen. It's a city. It's a place. And I am there, in an elevator, going down to the lobby of my hotel to meet with my translator, Kathy. Kathy is fascinating. She's very small. She has these sort of rounded shoulders, and she has these glasses that are way too big for her face. So they keep sliding down, and she has to push them up assiduously. She also has this sort of unnerving habit, that when she is listening to you, she leans forward indeterminately. So you really get the feeling that if you were to talk to her for long enough, she would actually fall into your chest, and you'd have to pick her back up again. We go outside and get into a taxi, and begin to drive through the streets of downtown Shenzhen. Shenzhen looks like Blade Runner threw up on itself. LEDs, neon, and 15-story-high video walls covered in ugly Chinese advertising. It's everything they promised us the future would be. We get out to the edge of the core of Shenzhen, and we come to the gates. Because 31 years ago, when Deng Xiaoping carved this area off from the rest of China with a big red pen, he said, this will be the special economic zone. And he made a deal with corporations. He said, listen. Use our people. Do whatever you want to our people. Just give us a modern China. And the corporations took that deal, and they squeezed, and they squeezed. And what they got is the Shenzhen we find today. And on the other side of the gates, it's the factory zone. And, whew. It's like going from the Eloi to the Morlocks. Everything changes. I've never seen anything like it. Everything is under construction. Every road has a bypass, every bypass has a bypass. It's bypasses all the way down. We pull onto an elevated expressway. We begin to drive under a silver poison sky. Because the air in Shenzhen-- it's not good in Hong Kong, but when you get to Shenzhen, you can actually feel it, like a booted foot pressing down on your chest. But it's amazing what human beings will get used to, isn't it? Because after you're there just a few days-- [BREATHES DEEPLY IN AND OUT]-- you hardly even notice it at all. And as we're driving, we're passing by arcology after arcology, these immense buildings that are so large, they're redefining my sense of scale moment by moment. And then our taxi driver takes an exit ramp, and he stops, because the exit ramp stops. In midair. There's some rebar sticking out, and an 85-foot drop to the ground. The only sign that the exit ramp ends is a single solitary orange cone. It's sitting there, as if to say, hmmm? We're busy. Be alert. Hmm-mmmm. We back back onto the expressway and begin to drive again. And then Kathy turns to me, pushes up her glasses, and says, "Excuse me, but I do not think this is going to work." And I hasten to assure her that it will work, but I'm talking out of my ass, because I don't know that it's going to work. In fact, I have a lot of evidence that this is not going to work. In fact, all the journalists I have talked to in Hong Kong, when I tell them about my plan-- you can actually see them wrestling with just how to express to me just how totally [BLEEP] my plan is. My plan is this. We are in a taxi right now in the factory zone. We are driving on our way to Foxconn. Foxconn, a single company, makes a staggering amount of the electronics you use every day.  They make electronics for Apple, Dell, Nokia, Panasonic, HP, Samsung, Sony, Lenovo, a third of all of it. That's Foxconn. And at this plant, they make all kinds of things, including MacBook Pros and iPhones and iPads. And so my plan is to take this taxi to the main gate, and then I'm going to get out of the taxi with my translator, and then my plan is to stand at the main gate and talk to anybody who wants to talk to me. And when I tell journalists in Hong Kong about my plan, they say, "That's different. That's not really how we usually do things in China. That's um, that's really a bad idea. That's really a bad idea." But I don't know what else to do. I have been trying to do things the right way. I have been working with a fixer for the BBC. I can't get anywhere. All the doors are closed. And you reach a certain point when you realize, you may need to obey your natural inclinations. And at the end of the day, I am large, I am American, and I am wearing a goddamn Hawaiian shirt. And we are going to the main gates. But I have to admit, when we get there, my resolve wavers. Because the Foxconn plant in Shenzhen is enormous. The Foxconn plant in Shenzhen has 430,000 workers. That can be a difficult number to conceptualize. I find it's useful to instead think about how there are more than 20 cafeterias at the plant. And then you just have to understand that workers told me that these cafeterias can hold up to 10,000 people. So now you just need to visualize a cafeteria that seats 10,000 people. I'll wait. And I get to the main gate, and I get out of the taxi with my translator. And the first thing I see at the gates are the guards. And the guards look pissed. They look really pissed. And they are carrying guns. And I look back at the taxi, which is now pulling away. And I'm involuntarily reminded of a Google News alert that popped into my inbox a few weeks earlier about a Reuters photographer who was taking pictures not at the Foxconn plant, but near the Foxconn plant. And Foxconn security went out, scooped him up, and beat him before releasing him. And I look up past the gates and the guards. I look up at the buildings, these immense buildings They are so enormous. And along the edges of each enormous building are the nets. Because right at the time that I am making this visit, there has been an epidemic of suicides at the Foxconn plant. Week after week, worker after worker has been climbing all the way up to the tops of these enormous buildings, and then throwing themselves off, killing themselves in a brutal and public manner, not thinking very much about just how bad this makes Foxconn look. Foxconn's response to month after month of suicides has been to put up these nets. It's shift change, and the workers are coming out of the plant. And I'm standing there under the hot monsoon sun and the gaze of the guards. I feel ridiculous. I look absurd in this landscape. I mean, I wouldn't talk to me. And Kathy surprises me. Who knew? She turns out to be a spitfire. She runs right over to the very first worker, grabs them by the arm, drags them over to us. We start talking, and in short order, we can not keep up. First there's one worker waiting. Then there's two. Then there's three. Before long, the guards are like, "Uhhrrr? Uhhhr!" And we move further and further away from the plant. But the line just gets longer and longer. Everyone wants to talk. We start taking them three or four at a time. We still can't keep up. Everyone wants to talk. It's like they were coming to work every day, thinking, you know what would be great? It would be so great if somebody who uses all this crap we make every day, all day long-- it would be so great if one of those people came and asked us what was going on. Because we would have stories for them. And I'm just ad hoc-ing questions. I'm asking the questions you would expect. What village in China are you from? How long have you been working at Foxconn? What do you do at the plant? How do you find your job? What would you change at Foxconn if you could change anything? That question always gets them. They always react like a bee has flown into their faces. And then they say something to Kathy. And Kathy says, "He says he never thought of that before." Every time. Every time. And the stories are fascinating. I talked to one young woman who works on the iPhone line. She cleans the screens of iPhones by hand, in these huge racks. Thousands and thousands of them every day. And she shows me how she does it. And then I show her my iPhone. And I hand her my iPhone. I take a picture of her holding my iPhone. And I say to her, "We'll never know, but you may have cleaned the screen of this iPhone when it came by you on the line. We'll never know." And quick as a whip, she takes my phone, and she rubs it against her pants. And then she says, "There. I've cleaned it a second time." And I say to her, "You seem kind of young. How old are you?" And she says, "I'm 13." And I say, "13? That's young. Is it hard to get work at Foxconn when you're--" She says, "Oh, no." And her friends all agree. They don't really check ages. The outside companies do have inspections. But the workers told me Foxconn always knows when there is going to be an inspection. So what they do then-- they don't even check ages then. They just pull everyone from the affected line, and then they put the oldest workers they have on that line. You'd think someone would notice this, you know? I'm telling you that I do not speak Mandarin. I do not speak Cantonese. I have only a passing familiarity with Chinese culture, and to call what I have a passing familiarity is an insult to Chinese culture. I don't know [BLEEP] all about Chinese culture. But I do know that in my first two hours of my first day at that gate, I met workers who were 14 years old, 13 years old, 12. Do you really think Apple doesn't know? In a company obsessed with the details-- with the aluminum being milled just so, with the glass being fitted perfectly into the case-- do you really think it's credible that they don't know? Or are they just doing what we're all doing? Do they just see what they want to see? Emboldened by my success at Foxconn, I decide to embark on a new plan. But I'm going to need Kathy's help if it's going to work. So I meet with her in the lobby of my hotel. And I say to her, "Kathy, now, you work with a lot of American businessmen, don't you?" And she says, "Yes, I do." And I say, "Great. Here's what I want you to do. I want you to call all the factories you have connections with. And I want you to call them, and I want you to tell them that I am an American businessman, and that I want to buy whatever they are selling." And she listens to this, and she says, "But you are not a businessman?" And I say, "That's true. I am not a businessman." And she says, "And you aren't going to buy their products?" And I say, "That's true. I'm not going to buy their products." And she says, "You will lie to them." And I say, "Yes, Kathy. I'm going to lie to lots of people." And for a moment, I think it isn't going to work. And then you can actually see the idea leap the synaptic gap from a problem to a problem to be solved. And she says, "You are going to need a lot of business cards." And two days later, we head out into the factory zone. As we come to each factory, Kathy briefs me on what it is they make, and what it is I have said I am going to buy. The factories are all different, but really, they're more similar than different. There are always gates and guards. And you get past those, there's always a lawn. Big and green and plush. No one walks on it. No one uses it. You go into the lobbies. The lobbies-- these huge, empty, Kubrickian spaces. Totally empty, except for a tiny little desk for the receptionist. And you cross the huge, empty lobby to the tiny little desk. You introduce yourselves, and then the executives always come down in a gaggle. Wobobobobo-- all together-- wobobobobobo. They pick you up-- wobobobobobo-- and you go up together-- wobobobobobo-- to a conference room. After the PowerPoint, we head down to the factory floor. Industrial spaces with 20, 25, 30,000 workers in a single enormous space. They can exert a kind of eerie fascination. There's a beauty to industrialization on such a massive scale. You don't have to deny it. There's a wonder to seeing so much order laid out in front of you. And people are walking around, whispering statistics in your ear. It's easy to slip into a kind of Stalinist wet dream. And I try to subvert that by locking onto actual faces as they take me up and down the aisles. And the first thing I notice is the silence. It's so quiet. At Foxconn, you're demerited if you ever speak on the line. At no factory I went to did anyone ever speak on the line. But this is deeper than that. As a creature of the first world, I expect a factory making complex electronics will have the sound of machinery. But in a place where the cost of labor is effectively zero, anything that can be made by hand is made by hand. No matter how complex your electronics are, they are assembled by thousands and thousands of tiny little fingers, working in concert. And in those vast spaces, the only sound is the sound of bodies in constant, unending motion. And it is constant. They work a Chinese hour, and a Chinese hour has 60 Chinese minutes, and a Chinese minute has 60 Chinese seconds. It's not like like our hour. What's our hour now? 46 minutes? You have a bathroom break, and you have a smoke break, and if you don't smoke, there's a yoga break. This doesn't look anything like that. This looks like nothing we've seen in a century. They work on the line, and the lines only move as fast as its slowest member. So each person learns how to move perfectly, as quickly as possible. If they can't do it, there are people behind them, watching them. And there are cameras watching both sets of people, and people watching the camera as they lock it down. They sharpen it to a fine, sharp edge every hour. And those hours are long. The official workday in China is eight hours long, and that's a joke. I never met anyone who'd even heard of an eight-hour shift. Everyone I talked to worked 12-hour shifts standard, and often much longer than that. 14 hours a day, 15 hours a day. Sometimes when there is a hot new gadget coming out-- you know what the [BLEEP] I'm talking about. Sometimes it pegs up to 16 hours a day, and it just sits there for weeks and months at a time-- month after month after month, straight 16s. Sometimes longer than that. While I'm in country, a worker at Foxconn dies after working a 34-hour shift. I wish I could say that's exceptional, but it's happened before. I only mention it because it actually happened while I was there. And I go to the dormitories-- I'm a valuable potential future customer. They will show me anything I ask to see-- the dormitories are cement cubes, 12 foot by 12 foot. And in that space, there are 13 beds, 14 beds-- I count-- 15 beds. They're stacked up like Jenga puzzle pieces, all the way up to the ceiling. The space between them is so narrow. None of us would actually fit in them. They have to slide into them like coffins. There are cameras in the rooms. There are cameras in the hallways. There are cameras everywhere. And why wouldn't there be? You know, when we dream of a future where the regulations are washed away, and the corporations are finally free to sail above us, you don't have to dream about some sci-fi dystopian Blade Runner 1984 bull [BLEEP]. You can go to Shenzhen tomorrow. They're making your crap that way today. When I leave the factories, I can feel myself being rewritten from the inside out. The way I see everything is starting to change. I keep thinking, how often do we wish more things were handmade? Oh, we talk about that all the time, don't we? I wish it was like the old days. I wish things had that human touch. But that's not true. There are more handmade things now than there have ever been in the history of the world. Everything is handmade. I know. I have been there. I have seen the workers laying in parts thinner than human hair, one after another after another. Everything is handmade. I'm at a restaurant in the factory zone, seated at a table with Kathy, and this aphorism is running through my head over and over again. I can't remember who said it originally. That paranoia is not paranoia when they're actually out to get you. And I go through my checklist again. I've gone through my pockets and found every slip of paper with an email address or a phone number, and I've destroyed all of these. I've hidden my paper notes off of my person, and I've erased everything on my laptop. And anything I can't erase is on an encrypted partition that I hope is encrypted enough. I have done all of these things because I am in this restaurant to meet with a union. Because there are unions in China. They're the ones that are fronts for the Communist Party. And then there are actual unions interested in labor reform. They're called "secret unions," because in China, if you're caught being a member of or affiliated with a union like that, you go to prison. You go to prison for many years. And that's why I've had to take these precautions. And getting this meeting involved climbing a ladder of associations, going to meeting after meeting, and each step along the way, just making good my intentions. Just being clear that I am a storyteller. I just want to hear people's stories. I just want to hear what they have to say. And the union organizers come in and sit down, and it's awkward at first. And then they begin to tell me about the situation on the ground. There is so much turmoil in southern China, so much happening just beneath the surface. They tell me about the two Honda plants that have gone on strike in the north of the province, and how they helped organized that strike. And I think about what it would mean to go on strike in a country where even being a member of a union can get you thrown in prison, what it would take to be pushed to that point. And I feel provincial saying this, but it's true. I can't stop thinking about how young these people are. They don't even look college age. They look younger than that. And I say to them, how do you know who's right to work with you? How do you find people to help you organize? And this sort of breaks the narrative. And for a moment, they look their age. And they look at each other bashfully. And they say, well, we talk a lot. We talk all the time. We have lots of meetings. And we meet at coffeehouses, and different Starbucks in Guangzhou. And we exchange papers, and sometimes there are books. And it's so clear, in this moment, that they are making this up as they go along. Then the workers start coming in. They come in in twos and threes and fours. They come in all day. It's an eight, nine hour day. I interview all of them. Some of them are in groups. There's a group that's talking about hexane. N-hexane is an iPhone screen cleaner. It's great, because it evaporates a little bit faster than alcohol does, which means you can run the production line even faster, and try to keep up with the quotas. The problem is that n-hexane is a potent neurotoxin, and all these people have been exposed. Their hands shake uncontrollably. Most of them can't even pick up a glass. I talk to people whose joints in their hands have disintegrated from working on the line, doing the same motion hundreds and hundreds of thousands of times. It's like carpal tunnel on a scale we can scarcely imagine. And you need to know that this is eminently avoidable. If these people were rotated monthly on their jobs, this would not happen. But that would require someone to care. That would require someone at Foxconn and the other suppliers to care. That would require someone at Apple and Dell and the other customers to care. Currently, no one in the ecosystem cares enough to even enforce that. And so when you start working at 15 or 16, by the time you are 26, 27, your hands are ruined. And when they are truly ruined, once they will not do anything further, you know what we do with a defective part in a machine that makes machines. We throw it away. And the thing that unites all these people is that they are all the kind of people who would join a union in a place where joining a union can destroy your life. I talk with one woman. She's very birdlike, very nervous. And she just wants to explain to me how it is that she came to be in a union. Because she never thought she would ever be in a union. It's just that she couldn't get her company to pay her overtime. And she complained and complained. This went on for weeks and for months. And Kathy says to her, kind of sharply, she says, "You should have gone to the labor board. That's what they're there for. You should have gone to the labor board." And the woman says, "I did. I went to the labor board, and I told them about my problem. And they took down my name and my address and my company. And they took my name, and they put it on the blacklist, and they fired me." And then she shows me a copy of the blacklist. A friend of hers in accounting photocopied it and snuck it out to her. She gives it to me. I hand it to Kathy to translate. You know, in a fascist country run by thugs, you don't have to be subtle. You can say exactly what you mean. The sheet is very clear that it comes from the labor board. It says right across the top, "The following is a list of troublemakers. If any of them are found in your employ, dismiss them immediately." And then there's just column after column after column of names, page after page after page of them. Kathy's hand trembles as she translates it. I talk to an older man with leathery skin. His right hand is twisted up into a claw. It was crushed in a metal press at Foxconn. He says he didn't receive any medical attention, and it healed this way. And then when he was too slow, they fired him. Today he works at a woodworking plant. He says he likes it better. He says the people are nicer, and the hours are more reasonable. He works about 70 hours a week. And I ask him what he did when he was at Foxconn. And he says, he worked on the metal enclosures for the laptops, and he worked on the iPad. And when he says this, I reach into my satchel, and I take out my iPad. And when he sees it, his eyes widen. Because one of the ultimate ironies of globalism-- at this point, there are no iPads in China. Even though every last one of them was made at factories in China, they've all been packaged up in perfectly minimalist Apple packaging, and then shipped across the sea so that we can all enjoy them. He's never actually seen one on, this thing that took his hand. I turn it on, unlock the screen, and pass it to him. He takes it. The icons flare into view. And he strokes the screen with his ruined hand, and the icons slide back and forth. And he says something to Kathy. And Kathy says, "He says it's a kind of magic." It's a long day. At the end of it, I'm packing up everything to go, and Kathy says something to me, out of nowhere. She says, "Do you think these people are mentally ill? Do you think it is possible they are making all this up?" And I look at her, as though for the first time, because, I mean, let's be clear. She's my Chinese worker. I pay her for her time. I don't think about her very much at all. But now I really look at her. She is exactly who all these workers I've been talking to for weeks-- she is exactly what they're all dreaming that their children will one day be. She has a good life in the center of Shenzhen, for her, for her family. What does this look like to her? I say to her, "What do you think? Do you think they're mentally ill?" And she suddenly looks very tired. And she takes off her glasses, and she rubs the bridge of her nose. And she says, "No. I do not think they are mentally ill. It's just that you hear stories, but you do not think it is going to be so much. You know? It's just so much." And I reach across the table, and I touch her hand. It's the first and last time we will ever touch, I and this woman whose real name I don't even know. I say to her, "I know exactly what you mean." <HOST:IRA GLASS> Mike Daisey, performing an excerpt adapted for radio from his one-man show, "The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs." After the break, what are we supposed to think of all this? That's in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. <HOST:IRA GLASS> It's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass. Today on our program, Mr. Daisey Goes to the Apple Factory. We've arrived at act two of our show, in which our subject is actually act one of our show. And so, um, act two of our show, Act One. When I saw Mike Daisey perform this story onstage, when I left the theater, I had a lot of questions. He's not a reporter, and I wondered, did he get it right? And so we've actually spent a few weeks checking everything that he says in his show. We invited Apple to come onto the program and respond, and they turned us down. We invited Foxconn to come onto the program and respond, and they also said no. Mike, however, was willing to come in and explain his methods at Foxconn's gates and in the factories that he visited. <SUBJECT:MIKE DAISEY> I talked to about 100 workers, a little over 100, over a number of different days, outside the gates. And I went to about 10 different factories when I was posing. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> When you met with the union workers, how many of those did you meet with? <SUBJECT:MIKE DAISEY> There were three of them. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And then the workers who came through to meet you? <SUBJECT:MIKE DAISEY> God, there were like 25, 30 throughout the course of the day. <HOST:IRA GLASS> As for Mike's findings, we have gone through his script and fact checked everything that was checkable. In one instance, we think that his translator may have misunderstood or mistranslated a fact for Mike. He says in his show that workers told him that the cafeterias at Foxconn seat 10,000 people. But based on press accounts, we think that it's possible that they serve 10,000 people, but seat only 4,000 at a time. Foxconn wouldn't answer the question for us directly. When it comes to the suicide rate at Foxconn, there were about 12 suicides at the Shenzhen plant in 2010. It's actually hard to get the exact number. Some people have pointed out that 12 suicides for 400,000 workers is actually much lower than China's suicide rate as a whole. China has an unusually high suicide rate of 22 suicides per year per 100,000 people. That would work out to 88 suicides for 400,000 workers. Mike Daisey points out that we don't actually know if these are the only suicides at Foxconn. <SUBJECT:MIKE DAISEY> And the biggest problem isn't the quantity. It's the cluster. If there was any company in America where a sizable chunk of your workforce went up, over a period of time, especially close to one another, and killed themselves in the same way, very publicly, it would be an enormous news story, because it's far outside the norm. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Overall, we checked with over a dozen people-- those would be journalists who covered these factories, people who work with the electronics industry in China, activists, labor groups-- about the working conditions that Mike Daisey describes in his show. And nobody seemed very surprised by them. <SUBJECT:IAN SPAULDING> Well, unfortunately, I think some of these conditions sound actually quite common. <HOST:IRA GLASS> This is Ian Spaulding, who estimates that he has been in or worked with about 1,000 factories throughout China. The company that he founded and runs, INFACT Global Partners, goes into Chinese factories and helps them meet social responsibility standards that are set by Western companies, so those companies are ready when outside auditors come and check on working conditions. He has a staff of 45. They do hundreds of factories a year, including electronics. [Producer's note: Ian Spaulding spoke with us about Chinese electronics manufacturing in general, but declined to comment specifically about Foxconn or Apple. We ran through the list of things that Daisey describes in his monologue and asked Ian if those things occur in Chinese electronics manufacturers.] <SUBJECT:IAN SPAULDING> There are hours in factories that are often too long and are excessive, and required over time. Things like cramped quarters can also happen, and repetitive motion injuries also can be quite common. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Another thing that Mike Daisey says that is disturbing to hear, is he says that the companies will deceive the auditors when the auditors come in. Have you seen that? <SUBJECT:IAN SPAULDING> Yeah. That actually is quite common. And I think many other people have also exposed this problem. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Now, don't get the wrong impression. Ian Spaulding did have a few quibbles with Mike Daisey. [Producer's note: Again, Spaulding was speaking in general about the kinds of things that occur in Chinese electronics manufacturing and did not comment on Foxconn or Apple specifically.] He said that if a worker gets injured and then is fired by his company, he or she can sue the company. And he said that lots of people are doing that these days. He said electronics companies have been improving their handling of toxic chemicals. And his only real objection to anything that Mike Daisey found had to do with child labor. Ian Spaulding said, yes, there definitely is child labor in China, but not at the top-tier electronics manufacturers. Other people who we talked to agreed with this. Even people who are critical of Foxconn for all kinds of things agreed with this. They said, maybe a stray worker here and there might get in on a borrowed ID, but it is not a widespread problem. <SUBJECT:MIKE DAISEY> Well, I don't know if it's a big problem. I just know that I saw it. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Again, Mike Daisey. He says, sure. Maybe it's not prevalent. <SUBJECT:MIKE DAISEY> I know that I met people that were there. And I know that I talked to them. I mean, there weren't very many as a proportion of the total group. I talked to more than 100 people. I met five or six who were underage. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And they were over the course of days? <SUBJECT:MIKE DAISEY> No, they were together in a group. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> So it's basically the girl who you described, who deals with the iPhones, who wipes off your thing, and then her friends? <SUBJECT:MIKE DAISEY> And then some people that were with her. They seemed like savvy kids, honestly. <HOST:IRA GLASS> The one source that I could find that backs up Mike on this one, at least a little bit, is Apple. Apple has released a report stating in the year that Mike was in China, 2010, Apple's own auditors went into 127 facilities around the world that make its products and say they found 91 underage workers. It doesn't say which facilities the workers were at. The report states that Apple helped install systems to verify ages, educated suppliers on recruiting practices, and made them return underage workers to school, and made them pay for the kids' education, and then it stopped doing business with one supplier that had 42 underaged workers and showed no commitment to addressing the problem. Probably the most interesting thing that we learned about Foxconn and other Chinese electronics manufacturers through all of this research had to do with the turnover rate. We heard this from a couple of people. Ian Spaulding says that it could be 10% to 20% turnover per month. He says it's a huge business problem these days in China. <SUBJECT:IAN SPAULDING> So you imagine the number of employees that you're hiring and that leave after one week, two weeks, one month on the job. And you're constantly trying to rehire people into those positions. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> With so many workers quitting, why doesn't that lead to companies changing conditions and raising salaries so they don't have to go through the hassle of hiring new people? <SUBJECT:IAN SPAULDING> Well, that's the good news, is it is. Nowadays, a lot of people talk about, what should company's brands, US and European brands, do to make conditions better? And the reality is that actually, what's proven to be more effective is this bottom-up labor market that's emerging, where employees are speaking with their feet. By leaving the factory, they're forcing factories to improve wages, improve working conditions, and improving dormitories to make things more attractive for employees. <HOST:IRA GLASS> When Apple turned down our invitation to come onto today's radio show, in a rather Orwellian gesture, they told us that they are 100% transparent as they refused to come on the air. They referred us to these reports that they've been issuing every year since 2007 on working conditions at the factories that make their products overseas. And these reports, I have to say, are remarkable documents. You can find these online at Apple's website. Apple, like many companies, has a code of conduct that suppliers have to commit to before they can do business with them. And each year, Apple audits many of the suppliers to make sure that they are complying with the code. If they don't, then there are corrective action plans, and there's training, and there's follow-up audits. It's very elaborate. And if it all fails, Apple stops buying from the supplier. Apple monitors pretty much all the working conditions that Mike Daisey talks about in his show. The report covering the period that Mike was in China talks about what Apple did in the wake of the suicides at Foxconn. They say they did an independent review. They asked for mental health counselors and other changes, which Apple says Foxconn has implemented. The report also has a whole section on n-hexane, which workers, not from Foxconn, but from another plant told Mike that they were exposed to, and then he talked about it in his show. Apple says that it found 137 workers had adverse health effects after exposure to n-hexane. It says that the supplier using the stuff was told to stop using the chemical, and has been audited since then to make sure it has happened. Mike Daisey has read these reports. <SUBJECT:MIKE DAISEY> I'm glad Apple does this. It's unfortunate more companies don't do it. And I do respect them for doing it. But it doesn't change the fact that the situation on the ground, even in their own reports, is not good. And then every year, the numbers are roughly the same, in terms of people who are non-compliant with overtime, and-- <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Yeah, I would say that in the 2010 report, Apple found that only 32% of suppliers that it audited followed its standard about working hours, though Apple doesn't name the companies that they audited in the report. <SUBJECT:MIKE DAISEY> And I really question the wisdom of that. I think that if they have a serious commitment to changing how things are done in the special economic zone in Shenzhen, then they would name those companies. And then those companies would begin to be held responsible. <HOST:IRA GLASS> As it is, Daisey says, Apple is basically saying, trust us. We're taking care of the problems. But without supplier names, nobody can independently verify any of it. Should we feel weird about the computers and phones we use, all the clothes that we wear, that are made in faraway factories in Asia, under harsh working conditions? Leaving Mike Daisey aside for a second, that's the question that all this raises, right? And the mainstream view that you would hear from lots of economists would be, no. You shouldn't feel weird. The famously liberal Paul Krugman, winner of the Nobel Prize for Economics, New York Times columnist, has argued that in places like Indonesia, terrible factories, far, far worse than anything you've heard about here today-- they raised the economy, they made everybody better off. Here's a quote from Krugman. "It is the indirect and unintended results of the actions of soulless multinationals and rapacious local entrepreneurs. It is not an edifying spectacle, but no matter how base the motives of those involved, the result has been to move hundreds of millions of people from abject poverty to something still awful, but nonetheless significantly better." Another person whose support for sweatshops may surprise you is one of Krugman's colleagues at the New York Times, columnist Nicholas Kristof. He was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize for commentary, quote, "for his powerful columns that portrayed suffering among the developing world's often forgotten people." Kristof spent years reporting in Asia. He co-wrote a book about the changes going on in China. <SUBJECT:NICHOLAS KRISTOF> Well, I mean, if you look at Shenzhen, for example, and Guangdong, where Foxconn is, then there's no doubt that it has been a tremendous benefit, not only to southern China, but indeed to much of Asia. It created massive employment opportunities, especially for young women, who frankly didn't have a lot of alternatives. That tended to give women more clout within families, within the community. My wife's ancestral village is in southern China, not too far from Foxconn. And people in that village went from a really grim kind of lifestyle, basically in the rice paddies, and for them, and indeed for many Chinese, the grimness of factories like Foxconn was better than the grimness of the rice paddies. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> There's a passage of your own writing that we emailed you before you came in this morning. Did you get that? <SUBJECT:NICHOLAS KRISTOF> Yeah, I did. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Can I ask you to read? <SUBJECT:NICHOLAS KRISTOF> Sure, absolutely. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> This is from a New York Times Magazine article that you wrote in 2000, and the article was called "Two Cheers for Sweatshops." <SUBJECT:NICHOLAS KRISTOF> "14 years ago, we moved to Asia and began reporting there. Like most Westerners, we arrived in the region outraged at sweatshops. In time, though, we came to accept the view supported by most Asians. In the years since our first conversations there, we've returned many times to Dongguan and the surrounding towns and seen the transformation. Wages have risen from about $50 a month to $250 a month or more today. Factory conditions have improved as businesses have scrambled to attract and keep the best laborers. A private housing market has emerged. A hint of a middle class has appeared, as has China's closest thing to a Western-style independent newspaper, Southern Weekend." <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> So you're saying, sweatshops are bad, but we should feel OK about it? <SUBJECT:NICHOLAS KRISTOF> Well, it's a very awkward thing to defend sweatshops, if you will. I mean, I think it's useful to be reminded about how grim the conditions are. But again, I just think that if you try to think how you can fight poverty most effectively, and what has fought it within China, then I think sweatshops are a key part of that answer. <HOST:IRA GLASS> To that, Mike Daisey says, sure. He's heard that argument. Sweatshops are just a phase poor countries go through, a phase that all the industrialized countries already went through. But he says, even given that, don't we have some basic obligation, as outsiders coming in, to treat the workers the way that our country has already agreed that workers should be treated? <SUBJECT:MIKE DAISEY> It may be true that over the long span of time, in 100 years, people will look back and be happy about how things went. But I don't think it's as clean as that. I just want basic labor protections for people. That's entirely compatible with everything that has been flourishing in Shenzhen. It's absolutely compatible to have everything work as it has, but also, people are rotated in their factories. It's entirely compatible to have things work as they are now, but there are also independent people, outside of individual corporations, that inspect, without announcement, to see that basic labor standards are covered. It's a really basic thing. It's a basic thing that we fought for in this country. It took 100 years of labor struggles to get to a place where that happened for most workers. Then we exported those jobs overseas, and we didn't send the protections with them. And it's not right. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Mike Daisey. His one-man show about Apple is going back onstage this month in New York at the Public Theater. The full show has this entire other storyline about Steve Jobs that you will have to buy a theater ticket if you want to hear. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Well, our program today, as always, entirely on Apple computers by Brian Reed and myself with Alex Blumberg, Ben Calhoun, Sarah Koenig, Jonathan Menjivar, Lisa Pollak, Robyn Semien, Alissa Shipp, and Nancy Updike. Our senior producer is Julie Snyder. Seth Lind is our production manager. Emily Condon is our office manager. Production help from Miki Meek and [? Nat Kilty. ?] Scouting help from Elna Baker. Music help from [? Damien Graef ?] and Rob [? Geddes. ?] [ACKNOWLEDGMENTS] Our website, where we have links to information on Apple and on Foxconn, thisamericanlife.org. A note to our Australian listeners. Yes, we are on the radio in Australia. I will be in Perth, Adelaide, and Brisbane this month, and there are still tickets available. This American Life is distributed by Public Radio International. WBEZ management oversight for our program by our boss, Mr. Torey Malatia. Torey, how much money do you make, anyway? <SUBJECT:SIRI> I'm not allowed to say. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And how old are you, exactly? <SUBJECT:SIRI> Good question. Anything else I can do for you? <HOST:IRA GLASS> I'm Ira Glass. Back next week with more stories of This American Life. <HOST:ANNOUNCER> PRI. Public Radio International. <EPISODE NUMBER:450> <EPISODE NAME:So Crazy It Just Might Work> <HOST:IRA GLASS> OK. First, a warning. I am going to talk about math. Don't worry, it won't be bad. 1644, a monk named Marin Mersenne gets obsessed for a while with prime numbers. You remember prime numbers? They're like the atoms of math, indivisible. They cannot be divided by any other number than themselves. So 3 is a prime number. You can only divide it by 3. Versus 4, which you can divide by 2, and you can get 2. Remember? OK. So Mersenne. <SUBJECT:PAUL HOFFMAN> So he had a formula that he thought could predict prime numbers, OK? <HOST:IRA GLASS> This is Paul Hoffman, who wrote about this in his book The Man Who Loved Only Numbers. He says that mathematicians had been searching for a formula like this to find prime numbers for nearly 2,000 years at that point. <SUBJECT:PAUL HOFFMAN> Euclid, way, way back, 2,300 years ago, had proved that there's an infinite number of prime numbers. But he gave no formula for how to find them. I mean, they're easy at small numbers. We can do the math in our head. 7's prime. Nothing divides into it. 11's prime. If I give you a really big number, now you're going to have to start calculating, OK? So this monk came up with a formula. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Mersenne creates this formula. And he uses it to spit out prime numbers. And one of the prime numbers that he said that he discovered was-- and this is going to sound a little bit technical-- 2 raised to the 67th power-- that is, 2 times 2 times 2 times 2, 67 times-- minus 1. And if that was confusing, all you need to know is this number of Mersenne's, 2 raised to the 67th minus 1, was famous among mathematicians. <SUBJECT:PAUL HOFFMAN> That's how his paper ended. He said it was a prime number. This is 1644. So 250 years later, we're into the 20th century. I think it's 1903. And you have this mathematician that shows up at a mathematical conference-- <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And who is this? What is the conference? Where are we? <SUBJECT:PAUL HOFFMAN> It's here in the United States. His name is Frank Nelson Cole. And he gave his talk a very unassuming title. He titled his talk "On the Factorization of Large Numbers." And he went to a blackboard. And he wrote, 2 to the 67th minus 1-- <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Wait, wait. Does he say anything? <SUBJECT:PAUL HOFFMAN> He says nothing. He says not a word. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> He just walks over to the blackboard and just, like-- <SUBJECT:PAUL HOFFMAN> He writes that. And of course, everybody in the audience knows that that's the famous Mersenne prime. And he writes, equals, and then he writes out a 21-digit number-- <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Oh, in other words, when you take 2 and then multiply it by 2 67 times, and then subtract 1, that is this number, 21 digits long. OK. <SUBJECT:PAUL HOFFMAN> Exactly, exactly. Equals this number. Then he moved over to a blank piece of blackboard. And he wrote down two numbers. One is a nine-digit number, times a 12-digit number. He writes those two numbers out. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> OK, so that's two numbers that were sitting there on the board, multiplication problem, and? <SUBJECT:PAUL HOFFMAN> And then he did the multiplication, just like the way they taught us back in second grade to do it. 7 times 1, he put down the 7. He went through the whole steps-- <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Just long multiplication. Does he say anything? <SUBJECT:PAUL HOFFMAN> Says not a word. Everybody sits there silently. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Now, remember, the whole idea of a prime number is you should not be able to take two numbers, and then multiply them together and get a prime number as a result. It's supposed to be indivisible. If you multiplied two numbers together and you got this 21-digit number as a result, then that 21-digit number is not prime. And if Mersenne thought it was prime-- which he did-- his formula supposedly spits out prime numbers, this one of them, then his formula, 250 years old, is just wrong. So, picture it. There's Frank Nelson Cole at the blackboard, slowly doing long multiplication, these two huge numbers. It takes a while. They're big numbers. It takes minutes, as this room full of mathematicians just watches him, lots of them, I'm sure, scrutinizing him for any math errors. He still has not said a word. And then, he gets to his result. <SUBJECT:PAUL HOFFMAN> And indeed, it ends up being that 21-digit number. Now, the whole place erupts into applause. Legend has it, this is the first time at a math conference that people got up and applauded. And he just returns to his seat without a word. And then later, someone asked him, "How long did it actually take you to figure out that Mersenne was wrong, that indeed this number has two factors?" And he said that he spent three years of Sundays working on this. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Three years of Sundays. Paul says these three years of Sundays were probably spent solving the problem by trying every possible solution-- dividing that huge number, 2 to the 67th power minus 1, by one number and then the next number and then the next. Three years of Sundays is 156 Sundays. For 155 of them, Frank Nelson Cole failed. Until finally, on the 156th Sunday, Frank Nelson Cole found a number that would divide it evenly, which, Paul says, is par for the course. <SUBJECT:PAUL HOFFMAN> That's what science is about. It's real people banging their heads against walls and years of false starts. That's the other thing. We don't talk about the researcher who spent two years trying to find what this gene did and then gave up, or spent three years trying to find a planet outside the solar system and gave up, and someone else eventually did. It's more a combination of insight and hard work, because-- <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Failure. <SUBJECT:PAUL HOFFMAN> And failure. Because people who think outside the box and achieve things outside the box often entertain a lot of wacky ideas that don't turn out to be true in the science world. Isaac Newton had lots of weird ideas. Charles Darwin had weird ideas. They happened to be right about what they're known for. Isaac Newton got a little interested in ghosts and all sorts of occult stuff. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Really? <SUBJECT:PAUL HOFFMAN> Yeah. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Wait, wait. And did he believe in ghosts, or did he just think, we gotta investigate this. Maybe there's some data here. <SUBJECT:PAUL HOFFMAN> No, he started believing in them. He-- <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Isaac Newton? <SUBJECT:PAUL HOFFMAN> Yeah. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Wow. <SUBJECT:PAUL HOFFMAN> So they're known for their out-of-the-box thinking on something that turns out to be true and is wonderful. But they've also entertained a lot of other stuff. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Well, today on our radio program, we have two stories of people who face impossible-seeming situations. And in each of those stories, it's like a bad action film. These two people each decide that the stakes are high enough that their best shot is to try something crazy, so crazy it just might work. The first story is about a scientist. The second story is about somebody employing this technique in his personal life, which is really something to see. From WBEZ Chicago, it's This American Life, distributed by Public Radio International. I am hoping that all this sounds so crazy you just might stay with us. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Act One, Mr. Holland's Opus. OK, true story. A guy goes to college on a music scholarship. And then afterwards, he ends up going into science. And he becomes a cancer researcher. His name is Jon Brody. And 19 years after graduating, Jon is invited back to his old college to give a talk about his work. And the speech he gives is mainly about how important it's been in his research to think outside the box, to use an overused phrase. To think outside the box, to be ready to turn away from what's familiar and try some new idea. And then after his speech, Jon is approached by his old orchestra teacher, a guy named Anthony Holland. And Professor Holland, to Jon's great surprise, says, "Speaking of thinking outside the box, I've actually been working on an experiment for a few years that I'd like to show you. Come look at this video. I think you'll find it very interesting." So what could Jon do? He'd just actually given a whole talk about keeping an open mind. What resulted from this was the kind of scientific collaboration that almost never, ever happens-- a serious cancer researcher teaming up with an amateur to try to make a breakthrough. Gabriel Rhodes is a documentary filmmaker. And he's been following the story from the beginning, back when Jon watched that video. Here's Gabriel. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> I've seen the video that Anthony, the orchestra teacher, showed Jon. And it amazed me. I saw single-cell organisms, basically round and oblong and pear-shaped blobs, swimming around under a microscope. Anthony narrates this as he goes along. And suddenly, the cells stop and just self-destruct. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> Look what happened, just now. He suddenly and dramatically disintegrated-- <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> Some burst into tiny fragments. And some look like a plastic bag that's been punctured, and their contents leak out. As Anthony explained to Jon, the theory behind what he was doing was simple. You know how a singer, if they hit the right frequency, can shatter a crystal glass? Well, Anthony was basically doing the same thing, directing specific frequencies at microorganisms, like bacteria and protozoa, to try and shatter them. And after a year and a half of experimentation, suddenly, it worked. So Anthony showed this to Jon. And he and Jon each remember the conversation that followed a little differently, in a way that says a lot about their later collaboration. Anthony's version was entirely optimistic. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> He immediately jumped right to the main thing that I was interested in. And he just said, "Do you think you can shatter cancer cells like that?" <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> And here's Jon. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> You know, when I first heard about it, it's in the arena of UFOs, for sure. He was putting words in my mouth already. He was saying things like, "Do you think this would work?" And I would say, "Well, it's a possibility, and I'm willing to try anything." And so Anthony would, in his voice, he would would say, "So you're saying that I could maybe cure cancer." And I was like, "Well, so could the oboe player downstairs." <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> But Jon was willing to talk more, in part, because he's so frustrated with cancer research. He thinks it's stalled. Lots of people going over the same familiar ideas, endlessly refining the same concepts, because the familiar is more likely to get funded. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> I do think it's much like being out in Hollywood, where you might go out to Hollywood thinking that you're going to be Kafka. And you might end up writing the worst, hackiest sitcom in the world, because you want to survive. So what happens in this country when the same thing happens with science? <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> I've known Jon Brody for 20 years. He's a good friend of mine. And before this encounter, Anthony was just a professor who drove him really hard, back when he went to college on a percussion scholarship. They weren't close or anything. But Jon definitely remembered Professor Holland as he'd always known him. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> He probably wouldn't say this, but I sort of remember him as-- I think he was disappointed in me as a musician in the orchestra, because I remember him wanting to have, like, extra sessions with me. And I think when we had a guest composer come in, I hate to say it, I think he relegated me to playing the triangle. And I'm not kidding. I seriously remember having to count, like, 67 bars to hit that one quarter note on the triangle. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> So when Anthony came up to him after his speech, Jon was flattered that this teacher he'd always respected was interested in his work. They started emailing back and forth about Anthony's video and his experiments, until finally, Jon decided that he couldn't tell whether Anthony had something serious that could be researched unless he drove up to see him. So he went. And he invited me along just as a fun road trip. And why not film the conversation while I'm there? <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> Is there enough light? I'm worried about the light. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> Oh, yeah. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> We're up as Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, New York, where Anthony teaches. Anthony's in his early '50s, but he's got a boyish vibe. He bounces a little when he walks. Full head of brown hair, goatee, glasses, corduroys. Your basic professor. Jon's in his late '30s, balding but in that stylish, close-cropped way. He stays in shape, even though he works like a maniac. And over the course of their long conversation, Jon was surprised and impressed by how much Anthony knew, how much he'd read, how dogged he'd been in his experiments. And one thing in particular caught Jon's attention. In Anthony's experiments, particular frequencies seemed to target particular organisms and left others untouched, meaning there might be frequencies that could destroy cancer cells while leaving normal, healthy cells alone-- a potential solution, Jon said, to the biggest problem with most cancer treatments. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> So if we can find a frequency specific to cancer cells, we could put someone in a room, and you hit that frequency, and it's not affecting normal cells. I mean, that's the actual perfect paradigm in which to treat someone for this disease. Because what kills a patient is not the primary tumor. It's the tumors that have left the site and gone off into neighborhoods that the surgeon can't take out. So if you could walk into a room and you can get completely zapped, like a complete CAT scan-- <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> Right. And it only hits the cancer. It doesn't hurt healthy cells. Yeah, that would be the-- <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> Home run. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> That's the dream. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> Yeah. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> That's the dream, because chemotherapy and radiation are so flawed. Both devastate healthy cells. Anthony's machine works by pulsing the cells with electromagnetic waves at specific frequencies. And there are other scientists out there - published in peer-reviewed journals - who are also using electromagnetic waves to attack cancer cells. There's an FDA clinical trial going on right now using this method. The whole field is still very new, just a handful of people - and Anthony's system is different from others - but using electromagnetic waves to target cancer cells isn't just a fantasy dreamed up by a music professor. Then Jon asked Anthony how he'd gotten into these experiments in the first place. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> I read an interesting book called Lost Science. And I'm very interested in hidden information, in secret stuff we're not supposed to know and things maybe that were known a long time ago or forgotten or something. And in that book-- now this is where it probably gets very kind of controversial-- but I read about a guy named Royal Raymond Rife. And the book says that in the 1930s, he built an electromagnetic frequency device, a radio frequency device, which cured cancer. I got the device. I developed a special, custom-built frequency synthesis program, because that's what I teach, digital audio synthesis. And I've been studying sound and physics and acoustics for a long time. And I began to run frequencies through this device. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> Now, Royal Rife, for lots of people who have even heard of him, is a name synonymous with bogus cancer cures. He was an inventor in the 1930s. And the legend is that he cured a bunch of people with cancer using an electromagnetic wave device before he was destroyed by a greedy, mainstream medical establishment. It's a staple of conspiracy theory websites. Google him. He's everywhere. If Jon wanted out of the box, Anthony and the Rife machine were way outside. And Jon and Anthony were just an unlikely pair. Jon was the head of his own lab by the age of 40. He gets hundreds of thousands of dollars from the National Institutes of Health and other very mainstream medical research organizations. Anthony, meanwhile, is a composer, electronics whiz, a self-taught expert in several fields, and a deep skeptic of all things mainstream, especially in medicine. He pulled me aside more than once to warn me I'd better be careful, my life might be in danger. Because big pharmaceutical companies would try to hush up any story about a possible cancer treatment alternative. But they decided to work together. And it was just as much a personal decision as anything else. Each of them saw something in the other. They liked each other. And Jon thought, who cares where the electromagnetic wave theory came from? It's a potentially game-changing treatment. Why not at least test it? So he invited Anthony to come down to his lab in Philadelphia with the device. And they agreed to keep everything as low stakes as possible, half-serious, half a lark. Anthony would come for only two weeks. And they'd see what happened. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> This is the miracle amplifier, the secret weapon. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> Anthony is in a room at Jon's lab at Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia, unpacking his equipment. And the plan for the next two weeks is that Anthony will work at night after everyone else leaves, so he isn't taking time or space away from other experiments. And he has to pay his own way. No tax dollars or grant money will be spent on this. Jon will supervise. So here Anthony is, surrounded by amplifiers, cables, all sorts of equipment, none of which is in special cases or anything. It's all coming out of luggage, wrapped in bubble wrap, and into this room where they do molecular cloning. It's got microscopes, a big medical-grade incubator, a special sterile area called the Tissue Culture Hood. It's high-tech. Jon's watching Anthony assembling his gear. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> It looks like you literally made this in your garage. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> Jon said, "It looks like you literally made this in your garage." To me, the setup looks like it was designed by Dr. Seuss for some sci-fi movie in the '60s. There's some high-tech gear, like a big, glass, helium-filled tube with electrodes that glows pink when it's turned on, and then this whole mess of consumer electronics. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> This is a power supply that came from an electronics house in Cleveland. And then this little 100-watt magical amp I picked up from some company that sells CB radios to truckers or something on the internet. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> There's also two laptops. And on one, Anthony's written a program that generates frequencies to send into the device. It sounds like this-- [BEEP] <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> It's not a really fabulous sound. It's kind of ugly and annoying. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> Yeah. And then a transmitter transposes the frequencies way up out of the audible range. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> And then, what we'll do is we'll set the cancer cells right here. And with any luck, if we get the right frequency, the cancer cells may in fact start dying. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> For the next two weeks, Anthony works all night, every night, running experiments, taking cancer cells that have been prepared for him out of the incubator. And he pulses the cells with frequencies for hours, trying one frequency after another. Jon checks in on the experiments every day. There's a lot of trial and error and problems. Some of the equipment blows out and has to be replaced. And Jon and Anthony aren't sure what they've got until Anthony's last day, when Jon comes to look at the latest experiments. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> Let's see. They're going to be labeled 720. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> They're sitting in front of a microscope, looking down at pancreatic cancer cells. The cells are in what looks like a tiny plastic egg carton. Jon looks down into the microscope, and he starts to get excited. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> This is pretty surprising to me. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> Really? <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> Yeah. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> A huge percentage of the pancreatic cells that Anthony pulsed with his device are dead. They combined the pulsing with a tiny bit of chemo. And of the cancer cells that Anthony pulsed, only 10% are still alive. A separate group of cells that he did not pulse has 60% alive. And this comparison is the key to the whole thing. In any experiment, you have the cells that you treat and the ones that you don't treat, which are called the control group. Comparing the treated cells to the control is the only way you can tell if something's working. Again, here, only 10% of the pulsed cells survived, versus 60% of the control cells. It's a dramatic result. And Jon gives everything to the lab tech Christina to count up the cells in a precise way, do the quantitative analysis. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> I mean, when she quantitates these, we're going to have a beautiful graph. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> Really? <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> Yeah. I mean, a beautiful graph. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> A beautiful graph. That's code for Jon is thrilled. Pancreatic cancer is his specialty. And it's practically invincible, harder to kill than other cancers. So tough that even chemo, which is poison, often barely works at all. Over the last 25 years, the biggest treatment breakthrough only added about four months to a patient's life. Jon starts going through his mental checklist of potential problems with the experiment. This is what he does when he's excited about new results. And he checks with Anthony about the controls. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> That's all you did to these things. And you took these out of the incubator, the others, out? The controls did you take out? <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> No. The controls I left in the incubator. I know I probably should take them out for the six or seven hours that I'm treating them. But, um-- <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> Yeah, I thought you were doing that. That's why, that first day, I was asking you to do that. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> Right. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> Jon's expression doesn't change much. But the experiment is now a wash. The cells that Anthony was pulsing sat outside the incubator for hours at a time while he was pulsing them. Therefore, the control plates also had to sit outside the incubator for the exact same amount of time. Otherwise, they don't count as controls. It was an amateur's mistake. And of course, Anthony is an amateur. But getting the controls exactly right turns out to be one of the hardest parts of any experiment. So even though Anthony's two weeks are up-- he has to leave today-- they've got to do the experiments again. The first chance Anthony has to go back to Jon's lab is six months later. It's a whole day's drive. He's on a sabbatical, so he can be here for five weeks this time. I visit him about three weeks in. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> You ask me how it's going. It's like the Tale of Two Cities. It's going really great on one hand, and it's going really badly on the other hand. It's going really great because we have absolute proof-- and we'll see what Jon says later today when we see him. But we're blowing cancer cells away. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> This is how Anthony sees it, because night after night, he's watching cancer cells die and taking thousands of time-lapse photos and videos as it happens, like the video that he first showed Jon. The problem is, these photos are not absolute proof at all, not to any scientist, not to Jon. Cancer cells die for all kinds of reasons. Absolute proof means only one thing-- counting the cells in the experiments, the treated ones and the control groups, and comparing them. So while Anthony might think they have proof, Jon would never say that. In these last three weeks, Anthony's had a series of setbacks. Basically, the photos are all he's got from a bunch of experiments that had to be thrown out. But finally, he starts to get incredible results. Jon gave him leukemia cells for the first time. And the pulsing seems to have killed 30% more of the cancer cells compared with the controls. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> You're doing something to these. You're doing something here. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> Well, yeah, I have video. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> We can get quantitation on this. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> Really? Hey, if we can get quantitative numbers out of this, I'll keep hammering these guys. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> Jon turns to Anthony and starts going through his mental checklist. Again he's excited. He's thinking that maybe, if everything's right, these results are good enough to publish in a paper. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> Now Anthony, I'm serious about this. You need to think about, for me, like anything I've done for you, you need to think about, is there any-- these plates just sit out here, and then you bring the other plate in there. And there's nothing different that you do to those plates. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> Nope. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> Except for the-- <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> Just electronic pulsing. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> Because if we publish this, your name will go first. My name will go last. It's our names on the line. We're married together. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> Yeah, I understand that. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> So our reputation is married. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> I think I should be a technical footnote at the end, "Thanks to Anthony Holland for assistance." <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> I think that's absurd. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> It wouldn't bother me. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> That's one of the most absurd comments you've made since I've known you. And you've made a few. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> That's OK with me. I mean that. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> Careful here. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> A couple days later, I talk to Jon up on the roof of his apartment building. They're still waiting for the numbers, the analysis. But now, they've got both leukemia and pancreatic experiments that they're fired up about. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> I mean, they're astounding results and sort of unprecedented. There could be a lot of reasons behind it besides the pulsing. And that's why we need to reproduce it. What makes me nervous and anxious is if I'm truly the only cancer researcher using this apparatus since Royal Rife, because again, that puts even more pressure on me to publish something that's real. And of course, I want it to work. It's potentially something very exciting. But it's still very much up in the air. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> Anthony's in a very different place. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> [SINGING] Somewhere over the rainbow. I kind of feel like that. We're living in Oz right now, because we're doing the impossible. What was Oz all about? Oz was all about, Dorothy goes to a wonderful place where miracles happen. That's where I am, because we're proving the impossible. We're proving that a Rife machine kills cancer. We're not proving. It's been proven. The question is, how much proof can we pile up now for other people? As Jon said, no one's going to believe it. Well, the rest of my life, no matter what anybody says, I know it works. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> By the end of August, a year since they started this process, Anthony's done two rounds of experiments. And he's about to finish a final round. The plan is for Anthony to reproduce the great leukemia and pancreatic results one more time, with perfect controls, including a special kind of control called a sham. Jon has asked Anthony to start writing up a paper to submit for publication while he's finishing the experiments. And he's more confident about the project than I've ever seen him. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> Just to let you know where I'm at, I'm excited about finishing this paper, putting my name on the paper. I'm willing to put my name out there so much that I'll be the senior author, the last author. And I'm willing to send in an NIH grant-- I don't know if we'll get it together-- for October. So this will be a six-page, $250,000 grant to pursue this work with Anthony. And I believe it so much that we're starting to administratively think about it and move this forward. If these controls work out well, his therapy's working at this stage of the game. And I wouldn't have predicted that. I mean, I know I'm going to get criticism about it. I know they're like, what are you doing? What is this? Do you really believe this stuff? I'm very serious about my reputation. And some scientists don't have an open mind. I'm definitely nervous about that aspect. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> Hello, Jonathan. How you doing? <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> I'm doing OK. How are you? <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> Very good. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> And then, bad news. Really bad news. I'm up at Skidmore with Anthony when Jon calls with the data about the final round of experiments. At first, they talk about the Excel spreadsheet with data from the control experiment called a sham. There was a bit of a strange result there. But the real bad news comes when Jon asks Anthony to open up the PowerPoint presentation and look at the data from the pancreatic experiments. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> PowerPoint. Let's see, room temperature-- whoa. What is this a PowerPoint of? <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> Well, the pulsing basically caused the cells to become resistant to the drugs. And they grew better. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> This is really weird, because it's very opposite of what we saw in previous experiments. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> Yeah. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> It's a disaster. It's a huge setback. It's shocking. The data show that in the plate of treated pancreatic cells, the ones pulsed with electromagnetic waves and given a tiny dose of chemo, 100% of the cancer cells were alive after treatment. Meaning not only did the pulsing not kill any cancer cells, but somehow, the pulsing seemed to protect the cancer cells from being killed by the chemo. Anthony is stunned. He keeps saying the same thing again and again. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> All the other experiments show completely different results. I don't understand that. It doesn't make any sense to me. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> It's a slap in the face, isn't it? <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> Yeah. Yeah. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> Yeah. So I'll go through stepwise, OK? Because there's some things we definitely need to discuss here. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> They talk for 45 minutes, going over every aspect of the experiment. Anthony had used a different microscope this time. Maybe that was a problem. The microscope light that Anthony used when he took time-lapsed photos of the experiments, was the light heating the cells? And the amp for the device had been outputting less power than usual. Maybe some of the components were damaged. But the upshot of these last experiments is different for Jon and Anthony. Anthony sees these results as a fluke, an outlier. The other results still seem valid to him. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> But for Jon, there's only one truth. If they want to publish, they've got to do more experiments. Anthony has to reproduce and confirm those great earlier results with controls. For me, doing this for 20-some-odd years or whatever it is, it doesn't surprise me that it's going to be this complicated. But I'm in it for the long haul, as far as the collaboration is, to try to figure this out. And we'll just keep at it, OK? <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> OK. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> But that wasn't what happened. In fact, for an entire year, Jon wasn't sure what was going on. And neither was I. He offered to go up to Skidmore to set up a lab for Anthony there if he couldn't come back down to Philadelphia. But that didn't happen. And then Anthony became very hard to reach. And a couple of weeks after Jon talked to Anthony by phone for the first time in several months, I go and see Jon. He's decided to go up to Saratoga the following week to talk to Anthony face to face about the experiment. In the last year, Jon's become more of a skeptic, partly about the device itself, but also about the collaboration with Anthony. Why would Anthony just drop out like this? <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> If he really believes in it and he really believes those results, let's do it again. If you cured cancer cells, let's do it again. My lab is open. My lab is open. My expertise is open. I'm happy-- you don't want to do it in Philadelphia? Let's do it in Saratoga. Ask him, why hasn't he taken me up on that? Let me ask you a question. If you knew you had something that killed cancer cells, and you believed in it, you really believed in it, you could wait a year to try to prove that because one set of experiments didn't work? I mean, come on. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> This is one of the big differences between Jon and Anthony, between scientist and non-scientist. For Jon, having a year's worth of work suddenly thrown into question is a normal day at the office. But for Anthony, that's not normal. And it's not OK. The time in Jon's lab was a year of his life, where he felt like Jon kept moving the goal posts. I felt that way, too, sometimes as I was watching. Jon kept saying he was amazed at what he was seeing and just about convinced. But then he'd wake up in the middle of the night with another experiment or control that he wanted to run. And there was no telling when it would end, which for him, again, is normal. But now, Anthony wants to know, before he starts turning his life upside down again, what will count as proof enough for Jon? How many experiments? <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> So let's say I do three weeks of experiment, and I only concentrate on these leukemia cells. And if I can kill at least 20% every single time, every week, will that do it? Would that be enough? Or do you want to see pancreatic die, or do you want to see-- I mean, what exact buttons do I have to hit? <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> When Jon gets to Saratoga, he and Anthony embrace and smile. And they're clearly glad to see each other. But as soon as they start talking about the experiments, they start arguing. And they don't understand each other. Jon keeps coming back to the same point. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> Why can't you accept that we haven't proven anything? In the court of scientific law, we haven't proven anything. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> But we have very intriguing results. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> That's fine. I mean, if you want to leave it at that, you could say that. But there's a big difference between intriguing and promising results and actually showing and demonstrating that something works. There's a huge difference. So 10 years from now, would you still walk around campus and be like, you know what? I killed those cancer cells. I actually did that. I actually proved that this worked. Do you think, deep down, that's the way you feel? That's what I want to know. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> We're not just talking about the last experiment, right? We're talking about the whole thing. In general? Are you kidding? I would frame this chart showing 43% of the leukemia cells dead. And I would say, we nailed them. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> Let me ask you a question. Let me ask you a question. If you're sitting on the cure for cancer, why aren't we doing the experiments? <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> I can't afford it. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> So you're telling me, you're willing to say to the world that you think you have the cure for cancer, but you can't afford it. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> Yeah. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> Anthony says he's run out of money. He spent six years, including the time he worked on his own with protozoa, putting his own money into these experiments. Equipment, travel, living expenses while he was at Jon's lab, many, many thousands of dollars. He won't say exactly how much. And then, after he got back from the last round of experiments at Jon's lab, it was like he was looking up from the microscope at his life for the first time in a while. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> I tell you, I came home from that year, and I just look at the house, and I just see, oh my god, I lost track of what's going on here. We need a new roof on the house. And we've got a huge leak in the bathroom. The plumbing's all screwed up. And I've been making too many sacrifices. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> Jon doesn't offer to fund another round of experiments. He's got a tight budget. And at this point, like I said, he's not feeling so hopeful about Anthony and his experiment. He's more optimistic about the 30-plus other experiments he's got moving ahead in his lab. And Anthony refuses to ask for money to proceed. He says that would be rude. But he says he may have a different solution to the money problem. He starts showing Jon his new website for his new nonprofit company, called-- <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> Novobiotronics Incorporated, "the future of biotechnology research," and a lot of dramatic statements. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> Apparently, for the past year, Anthony's been forming this nonprofit company and building the website, which has tabs for all the different research he hopes to do with the device. Not just cancer, but also Lyme disease, malaria. He doesn't get into the malaria or any part of that with Jon. But he does show him the pages and pages where he explains, in detail, the cancer experiments they've done, without mentioning Jon's name or the name of his lab, since he doesn't have permission. Anthony says his plan is to use the website to raise money so they can continue the experiments. I thought Jon might be angry. Why hadn't Anthony told him that this is what he'd been doing all year? But Jon's reaction is-- <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> This is amazing. I wish that all the students or the graduate students or people or the scientists that believed in what they were doing took this sort of initiative. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> Wow. That's nice to hear. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> I think it's a beautiful website, Anthony. I think it's great. I think my only concern is, again, which is my overall concern of where things are at, is you have to be really careful here, that, really, a trained eye or a trained scientist is going to immediately question the overabundance of data without the controls and without the reproducibility. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> So let me respond to this idea that intelligent and expert trained scientists, if shown this data, might dismiss it for lack of more information on the controls. And here's where I've been saving the best information for last, for a sort of dramatic and controversial revelation. I've had three important scientists in the field, in the field of cancer research, contact me about my work. They have seen this data. They have seen all of our data. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> This changes the conversation entirely. Suddenly, Jon's reputation is on the line. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> I would never give that data out to another scientist. It wasn't controlled. That's highly inappropriate behavior that you did, that you actually went behind my back and you sent this to other researchers, where I allowed you to use my credibility and my lab to do this work. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> OK, so here's my response. First of all, if there was some breach in protocol I made by sharing some preliminary data-- <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> Why didn't you ask me? Why didn't you say, "Look, someone's contacting me. Do you mind if I share some of our data together?" <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> Could I finish without being interrupted? <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> Yeah. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> If I broke some protocol, I apologize. You never told me, "Keep this data secret and don't show it to anybody." It just was given freely-- <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> Even though Anthony promises he didn't mention Jon's name to these other scientists, if one of those scientists were to do a quick Google search, in a few clicks, he could get to Jon, who would then be associated with data he would never want public. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> I'm sorry. I mean, to me as a composer, it's like if some violinist says, "Hey, do you have a piece for a violin?" I say, "Well, I have a sketch. It's nothing really great, but I have a little start." "Well, let me see what it is." "Sure. I'll send it along." So it's the same kind of thing. And when people contacted me-- <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> You didn't send it as a sketch, Anthony. You sent them data that is as if we had done the proper controls. That's false advertising. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> Jonathan, in one case, I met for hours with the director of a medical research hospital in the cancer division. And I explained to this doctor exactly, exactly what we did. She knew it was preliminary. She knew there were holes and things that had to be nailed down. She knew all the details of everything, looked at the data, and said, "Yeah, let's go. Here's a seven-page contract." So I'm just saying-- <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> I just wanted to be part of the conversation. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> You asked me to respond. No scientist would take my preliminary data seriously. I'm sorry, that's wrong. And I think you need to make up your mind. Either this preliminary data I have is not worthy of another scientist's consideration, or you're mad at me for showing it to another scientist who considered it worthy. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> It's not. Anthony, we've had discussions. And you were mostly concerned about-- <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> Finally, Jon and Anthony asked for time to talk alone with no microphone. After a while, they made up. But it doesn't seem like they're going to be working together anytime soon. What it felt like to sit in that room, it felt like watching a couple break up, which I felt more sad about than I'd expected to. They were this odd pair it was fun to root for. And on top of that, I just felt like, [BLEEP] cancer. Anthony's father died of cancer. Jon's aunt died of cancer. My mom died of cancer. Why can't we just get rid of this already? I think out of the three of us, only Jon, who deals with it every day, had realistic expectations when he started these experiments with Anthony. <SUBJECT:JONATHAN BRODY> Even if you have a good idea, even if you have a potential sci-fi cure, it's just not that easy. But if we want scientific breakthroughs, this is what it takes. <HOST:GABRIEL RHODES> We are trying to have breakthroughs. We're just not succeeding most of the time. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Gabriel Rhodes. He's going to continue filming Anthony and Jon if either of them ever starts this research again. You can see clips from what he's filmed so far at thecuredocumentary.com. Coming up, trying something crazy, throwing a Hail Mary pass to solve a tough problem in your own personal life. A true story. That's in a minute, from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International, when our program continues. <HOST:IRA GLASS> It's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass. Each week on our show, of course, we choose a theme, bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show, So Crazy It Just Might Work, stories of people trying a risky thing that nobody ever tries. And that is for a good reason. We have arrived at Act Two of our show. Act Two, Benny Takes a Jet. So Benny was 23 in Utah. And he would want you to know, before you hear anything else in this story, that he knows that he was an immature 23, because he was gay and a Mormon, which meant that he did not admit to others or himself that he was gay. So he was utterly unused to how to handle a crush, which is what this story is about, a crush. The crushee is 18 and Mormon. And Benny met him when he came in for a job interview. In retrospect, Benny says, he was obviously straight. Though at the job interview-- <SUBJECT:BENNY> He was flirtatious with me in that he wanted the job really bad. So he was very complimentary towards me. He kept telling me, "You're, like, the coolest guy I've ever interviewed with my entire life. You're so cool. You're the kind of guy that everybody wants to hang out with. And you've got this energy kind of emulating." And I was just-- I was so taken by him. And he had these long, black eyelashes and these blue eyes. And I was just all gawking at him. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Really? Tell me everything you remember about stuff he said and stuff you said. <SUBJECT:BENNY> I remember saying to him, "You know, this isn't just a normal retail company. When people come through the door, it's very important to get intimate and just, like, lock eyes with people and make them feel-- like, really seduce them." And he's like, "Kind of like I'm seducing you right now?" And keep in mind, this boy is hopelessly straight. However, I was interpreting it the way I wanted it to go. And I remember, he kept doing that little-- every time it would be like a touche moment, he would reach over and hit me, kind of-- "Yeah, bro," kind of hit me on the knee. And it was making me crazy. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Oh, he touched you. <SUBJECT:BENNY> Several times. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> So you hire him for this job. And then he's working there at the company. And how often would you see him? <SUBJECT:BENNY> Well, I traveled Monday through Thursday. And then, once I hired him, I found myself finding all these excuses and reasons why I needed to be back in Utah. Oh, there's a big HR meltdown with this at this store. And I think there's a lot of theft problems, that we're having control issues at this store. Someone would give me one little thing, and I would come roaring back on a one-way ticket to Salt Lake City. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Was he that cute? <SUBJECT:BENNY> I don't know what happened. Now that I look back, when I show people pictures of him, if I-- <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> You have pictures of him? <SUBJECT:BENNY> Well, I took several pictures of him. His friend, he and I ended up seeing each other. And I said, "Oh, I'm doing this end of the year slide show of all the employees. And oh, I don't have any pictures of him. So is there any possible way that you-- do you have any just lying around?" "Oh my gosh, yes. I have all these pictures of us when we went boating." "Oh, perfect." So he brings all these pictures. And I end up, of course, picking out all of the shirtless ones. And he never questioned. He'd just, "Oh yeah, this is a good one, too." And I even remember him saying, "This one looks like some Abercrombie shot of him coming out of the water." And I said, "Yeah, I'll take that one, too. I think everyone will like that one." <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And did you use them? <SUBJECT:BENNY> Actually, I did put a couple of them in the slide show. But then, when I was done, I never gave them back to his friend. I had them, like, stashed all over the place. I mean, at one point, they were in my Book of Mormon, they were in my Bible. I was just such a mess, just a boiling pot of crazy. I look back now, and I still don't even know who that person is, to behave like that. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And what did you say to yourself at the time? What did you think it was? <SUBJECT:BENNY> I would never, ever try anything. I would never-- because I always told myself I wasn't gay. But I was struggling with this thing that I didn't know what it was. And maybe other men, young men, struggle with the same thing. And maybe there would be a moment of vulnerability or a moment of confusion for him, where he would be possibly feeling the same thing I was. And maybe, I don't know, a cuddle or a kiss on the cheek or something very minor. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> That's really as far as you would go in your head? <SUBJECT:BENNY> When I was with him. There were times-- well, it went way further than that, obviously, in my private spaces. Way further, as far as it could possibly go. But then I just felt so horrible. And then, when I would see him, I would feel like I had done these things with him. And then I couldn't look at him. And there was all this guilt. I would then really beat myself up and say, oh, Benny, will you let Satan just get into your body like that and allow that? This is so evil. I would go there. I can't even begin to describe to you how exhausting it was. Coming out was not an option. It was so unfathomable. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> You were Mormon. <SUBJECT:BENNY> Mormon, and really believed it. I believed it so much that, around this time, there was a gay-straight alliance group at a high school, trying to form in Salt Lake. And I actually went to it to try and fight them off, to get it not to pass to be able to be at this school. I went and rallied there with some other Christians, Mormons. There was a big group. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> To prevent this group from existing. <SUBJECT:BENNY> Yeah, because I was very dedicated to also killing this, quote, "demon" that was inside of me, that I was told that was-- I had allowed this to come in. I had chosen this. There was no-- and because of the guilt-- <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And when you were trying to prevent this group from starting up, did you feel like you were doing other people a favor? Or was it not even-- <SUBJECT:BENNY> Mm-hmm. That was my redemption in what I was behaving like, thinking about guys, going into chat rooms. Any of those things that I was doing on the side, I felt, in the greater scope of things, that I was carrying the banner of God. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Anyway, back to the crush. Soon enough, the 18-year-old turns 19 and gets called on a Mormon mission to Peru, which means that he'll be gone for two full years. <SUBJECT:BENNY> I was absolutely devastated. I went to his farewell. And his parents were all about, "Oh, he loves you so much. You're the greatest boss," yada, yada. Of course, you know how I took all of that. I'm just filing it in crazy town. <HOST:IRA GLASS> The 19-year-old leaves. Benny stews for six months, driving his best friend Parker nuts with all of his obsessing. Parker, by the way, in this story, seems like the greatest guy in the world-- straight, Mormon, but understanding Benny better than Benny was understanding himself at the time. And it is with Parker, at 2:00 in the morning, that Benny comes up with his idea that is so crazy that it might just work. <SUBJECT:BENNY> I said, "We should go visit him in Peru." And Parker says, "You know what, Benny, let's go. Let's go. Let's go visit him. Yeah, let's go see him." And I said, "I'm serious. I will book the tickets tonight. And he said, "OK." <HOST:IRA GLASS> Benny then goes to the 19-year-old's parents and says that he's taking a vacation to Peru. Would they want him to bring a package or something from the family, maybe? Seems like a nice offer. They say, of course. Everybody agrees to make it a surprise for the 19-year-old, more fun that way. So Benny and Parker fly to Peru, make their way to the remote mountain town where the 19-year-old was now a missionary. They wander around asking people, where is the Mormon church in town? <SUBJECT:BENNY> I ended up-- someone said, "Oh yes, we know where the Mormoni" or whatever they called it. They said, "Yeah, we know where the Mormons are." And so they told us where the chapel was. And we got to the chapel. And these elders were just, oh, my gosh. They're yelling through the church, "Oh, my gosh. Buddy from Utah is here. And, oh, my gosh, you just showed up. Like, who does that? That's the coolest thing. Dude, how expensive were those tickets?" It turns into to this big-- <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Did you feel guilty at all? <SUBJECT:BENNY> Oh, my gosh. I felt, once I was there in the chapel and this started happening, all of a sudden, this very dark cloud came over me of, boy, you are messing with fire, because now, you're in the Lord's house, and you are waiting for this boy that you are crushing just obsessively over. And I started to become very uncomfortable. And then, all of a sudden, one of the elders came. They said, "He's here." I felt as if I was going to puke. And then he came in. He walked right in. And when he walked in, he stopped in his tracks, and he's, "No way." And he just dropped all of his books. And he just, "What?" And he ran over to me, and he just grabbed me and hugged me so tight. It was so tight and so-- And he was like, "What are you doing here?" And Parker is friends with him. So Parker's like, "Hey, dude." Parker's going along with this ridiculous, cockamamie thing that I have done. And he called his mission president or someone and said, "I have friends from Salt Lake City that are traveling through Peru." He got permission or something to come and take time with us. And so it's, like, 7:30 at night now. It's getting dark. And freakin' Parker, he's like, "OK, I'm gonna--" And if you know anything about missionaries, you can't be away from your companion that's with you, can't separate from each other, ever, unless you're going to the bathroom. So Parker's like, "I'm gonna distract him enough, where we're in a conversation, where you can at least get a good 50 feet away from us, where he can still see you so it won't look weird. And you can spend some time with him and just talk to him, see how his mission's going." So him and I sat on the steps of this cathedral. And I said, "How's the mission going?" And he started telling me. And then he just starts to cry. And then he says, "I feel like you're an answer to my prayer, because I have been struggling so much here." My heart is ready to beat out of my bloody body. I mean, it's just-- <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> This is your reaction. <SUBJECT:BENNY> I remember the pulse that was happening. It almost hurt. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Because he said that, you're the answer to my prayer. <SUBJECT:BENNY> Yeah. And then he said, "I've been struggling." I said, "Listen. I've been on a mission. I know what that feels like. I have been here. I know how confusing and difficult and lonely it can be." And he said, "I just can't believe you came here." And then he said, "This has got to be the coolest thing anyone has ever done for me, to just come here and do something this, for you to come and see me." And then he said, "Wow, Benny, I feel so much happiness seeing you. And you are that kind of person that has always filled me with joy and hope. And every time I'm around you, I want to be better." And then I just said, "Well, you know, I love you a lot." And he said, "I love you, too." And then it was like Tourette's. I couldn't even help myself. And I just said, "No. I love you." And then he kind of tilted his head. And he looked at me, and he said, "I love you, too, bro." I saw in his face, the way he looked at me. And then, my eyes are starting to fill up with tears. I'm starting to panic. All of this that I've held inside of me is crumbling. Quivering lip, the whole puppy face, I can't even imagine what he was seeing. And Parker-- I look over. Parker, I see him in the background with his hand like, "cut it" to his neck. He just was looking at me like, "Benny, cut it." He was watching the body language. He could see what was unfolding. He was like, "Benny, just cut it." And actually, this guy, he knew I had deviated from "I love you, bro." And then he's like, "You know, we gotta go. It's getting really dark." And I was crushed, because in that moment, it was like I'd been asleep and someone had woken me up. And all of a sudden-- we were walking away, and I said to Parker, "He's straight, isn't he?" And Parker said, "Benny, yes. He is." And I just went crazy and started yelling at Parker. "How could you let me do this? You were supposed to be my voice of reason! You're my best friend! I confided in you in this! This is your fault! You put these thoughts in my head!" And I was so angry, I just started screaming at him in the middle of the street. And I was bawling like a crazy person and just saying, "What is this feeling?" And he's like, "Benny, you're feeling crushed, like you're heart's breaking." He's like, "This is good. You're supposed to feel this. It's a little late." And I'm like, "Don't tell me how to feel! I want to go home. I don't even want to stay in Peru anymore." And Parker just sat. And I said, "Tell me this. Have you known all along that this was going to happen?" He goes, "Well, to be honest, I didn't know you were going to do that. But of course I knew he was straight. I tried to tell you one time. You got a little weird about it. And I just decided in my head, Benny needs to experience this." I cried for hours. And Parker was just listening to me. And then he was the one that said, "You imagine, Benny, feeling this but having someone reciprocating it." And I said, "You mean, with a gay guy?" And he said, "Well, yeah, because that's the only guy that's going to do that with you." And then it was this journey to coming out of the closet. That was what cracked it opened, you know? <HOST:IRA GLASS> Benny now lives in New York City. He has a boyfriend. [MUSIC - "I'M PUTTING ALL MY EGGS IN ONE BASKET" BY BOB WILLS AND HIS TEXAS PLAYBOYS] <HOST:IRA GLASS> Our program is produced today by Jonathan Menjivar with Ben Calhoun, Sarah Koenig, Miki Meek, Lisa Pollack, Brian Reed, Robyn Semien, Alissa Shipp, and Nancy Updike. Our senior producer's Julie Snyder. Seth Lind is our production manager. Emily Condon's our office manager. Music help from Damien Graef and Rob Geddis. Our website, thisamericanlife.org. [ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS] Paul Hoffman, who you heard at the beginning of the program, is president of the Liberty Science Center. This American Life is distributed by Public Radio International. WBEZ management oversight for our program by our boss, Mr. Torey Malatia. You know, you really should have seen him at the WBEZ all-staff Halloween party in his pigtails. <SUBJECT:ANTHONY HOLLAND> [SINGING] Somewhere over the rainbow. <HOST:IRA GLASS> I'm Ira Glass. Back next week with more stories of this American life. <HOST:ANNOUNCER> PRI, Public Radio International. <EPISODE NUMBER:441> <EPISODE NAME:When Patents Attack!> <HOST:IRA GLASS> Back during the rise of the dot coms and the internet, Jeff Kelling and a few of his friends were working as programmers together at this company in Dallas. And they decided they wanted to get together the way the tech geeks were doing all over the world at the time and come up with an idea for their own internet company to start. <SUBJECT:JEFF KELLING> One of my business partners, Andy, his wife had just had a baby, and we started thinking about photo sharing. Andy could share his photos of his new baby with the grandparents that live across the state. <HOST:IRA GLASS> And this is 1999. This is before Flickr, this is before Shutterfly. But Jeff and his friends, they were not the first people to try to make a business out of photo sharing. There were other companies out there trying to make a go of that. And it is not easy. It took Jeff and his partners years-- working nights, working weekends-- until finally in 2006, their startup was doing well enough that they could all quit their day jobs and do that full-time. Their company was called FotoTime-- that's FotoTime with an F. Just as they were living the dream, entrepreneurship, their own business, until-- <SUBJECT:JEFF KELLING> We got a letter in May of 2008. And it wasn't a friendly letter. I mean, if you take a letter from the IRS that says, we're going to audit you, this letter was even less friendly than that. It pretty much said, you're in violation of three of the patents that our company holds. You must contact us immediately to arrange payment and settlement, or we will be taking you to court. And we were wondering, what is all this? I mean, this whole thing was developed internally. It's not like we went through the patent office and stole people's ideas. And it's also not like we were the first to do this. And we looked up this lawsuit online and we saw there were over 130 companies named in this lawsuit. <HOST:IRA GLASS> All the big names were there-- Yahoo, which owns Flickr, as well as Shutterfly and Photobucket, and lots of small companies like Jeff's as well. The company suing Jeff was called FotoMedia. Jeff was FotoTime with an F, this was FotoMedia with an F. And one thing that was odd, they weren't actually a competitor of Jeff's. They didn't have a website where you could upload or share photos. And it wasn't clear to Jeff what in the world they thought he'd stolen from them. Had he accidentally come up with a way to upload files, or maybe see photos online, or do the credit card transactions that already somebody had some sort of patent on? Or was it that he hadn't stolen anything? They were just looking for a payout, scamming him for some money? And what was especially galling to Jeff, when he called them to ask, what am I stealing from you guys? They wouldn't tell him. <SUBJECT:JEFF KELLING> That was a question they wouldn't answer. They said they wouldn't answer that until we got into court. So they wouldn't even identify what parts of our business or what they thought we were doing to use their technology. <HOST:IRA GLASS> But to go to court to answer that question was going to cost money, a lot of money. <SUBJECT:JEFF KELLING> It was between $2 and $5 million. That's more than our company could handle, honestly. We knew we had to settle this thing somehow. There would be no more FotoTime today if we had to do that. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Amazingly, it wasn't just Jeff and the other companies getting sued over these three patents who were upset. Out there in the world was an inventor who came up with the original ideas that got patented for two of these three patents, and he wasn't that happy about the lawsuit either. The guy's name was David Rose and he was issued these patents back when he started his own photo-sharing company back in the mid '90s, just a couple years before Jeff Kelling started his. And he had gotten the patents in part because having a patent was just one of those things you did to raise money from investors, a check box you checked to prove you were serious and to protect yourself from some company swooping in and stealing your ideas. He sold his company in 2000 and the patents that he got along with it. He thought the people who bought his company would expand the company and make it prosper. Hopefully, turn it into a household name. He has some problems with what they chose to do instead. He talked to This American Life producer Alex Blumberg and reporter Laura Sydell. <SUBJECT:DAVID ROSE> It's the hoarding and non-operating of the technology that doesn't feel good. Because they didn't become the brand that they could have become. They had the protection. They could have built Flickr. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> Right. And instead they waited for somebody else to build Flickr, and then they sued Flickr? <SUBJECT:DAVID ROSE> Yes. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Companies that make no products, but go around suing other companies that do make products over supposed patent infringement are so common in Silicon Valley these days that there's a derogatory term for it-- trolls, or patent trolls. David Rose explains, trolls-- <SUBJECT:DAVID ROSE> You don't know that there's one under the bridge. They pop up. They have unreasonable demands. They can charge monopoly tolls or monopoly rents. <HOST:IRA GLASS> So the guy who came up with two of these patents doesn't want the lawsuit and the guy getting sued for the patents doesn't want the lawsuit. And yet, the lawsuit happens. FotoMedia, by the way, denies being a patent troll. Its CEO told us that patent troll is a term that people throw around very loosely when they're in litigation over patent rights. As far as we can tell, and not a lot of this information is public, most of the companies being sued ended up doing what Jeff did, and agreed to pay FotoMedia money. Some of them were put out of business. Jeff felt like he had no choice but to settle. He told Laura and Alex that reaching a settlement ended up taking six months, a very rough six months. <SUBJECT:JEFF KELLING> It feels like if they're not reasonable, OK, our venture of 10 years is going to be gone. They have to be reasonable or we will just plain be gone. And we're talking about 10 years of our life. You know, honestly, as I'm talking about it now, it's kind of raising my heartbeat a little bit because I just remember how I personally felt. Just the huge amount of anxiety and lack of control over the whole situation. It was just an awful feeling. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> Can I ask what that final settlement was, how much it was? <SUBJECT:JEFF KELLING> No. No, unfortunately, part of the terms of our settlement agreement is that we don't discuss the amount. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> Did it put your business in danger? <SUBJECT:JEFF KELLING> It did, and they knew that. The settlement they wanted to get was just enough to put us in danger, but not to close us, and I'll stop there. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Patents are so foundational to the American way of life that they're in the Constitution. Their purpose is quote "to promote the useful arts and sciences." In other words, to get people to share their ideas and inventions. To say to somebody like Eli Whitney, OK, you have this amazing invention, the cotton gin. If you tell everybody how it works and how to make their own, in exchange, any time somebody uses the idea, you get paid. If there were no such thing as a patent, Eli Whitney would have to keep his invention hidden in a dark room with no windows. Nobody would steal the idea, and then people would bring him their cotton, and he'd spit it out for them all processed on the other side. Instead of that, we had thousands of cotton gins everywhere. Patents make it safe to share and to innovate. But today, lots of investors and innovators in Silicon Valley, maybe the majority would tell you, the patent system is doing the exact opposite of what it's supposed to. It's not promoting innovation, it's stifling it. Because patent lawsuits are on the rise. Patent trolls are on the move. Patent lawsuits are so common now that it's hard to find even one semi-successful startup in Silicon Valley that has not been hit with a suit. Which slows innovation, makes it harder for companies to prosper, hurts our global competitiveness-- is this getting big enough for you? Costs us all more money when we buy the stuff these companies sell. From WBEZ Chicago, it's This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I'm Ira Glass. Today on our show, "When Patents Attack." Our guides this hour are going to be NPR correspondent Laura Sydell and This American Life producer and Planet Money co-host Alex Blumberg. OK, take it away, guys. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> The term patent troll was first coined by a guy named Peter Detkin, who at the time was one of the top lawyers at one of the biggest tech companies in the world, the computer chip maker Intel. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> Around 1999, Intel found itself in the position that Jeff Kelling-- the guy we heard from at the top of the show-- was in. Getting approached by a company that didn't build anything. <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN> Simply saying, I have a patent that covers semiconductors generally. You make a semiconductor, and therefore, you should pay me some money. And there were a lot of claims like that. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> One lawsuit in particular made Peter Detkin so mad that he called the lawyer who filed it a quote "patent extortionist." The lawyer turned around and sued Peter Detkin for libel. So Detkin needed a better name. <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN> So I had a contest inside Intel. The contest itself was named "The Terrorist." And these suggestions-- we got a lot of suggestions, but none really fit. But at the time my daughter was, I think, four or five and she liked playing with those little troll dolls. The original one, in fact, is still in my office. And so I turned to her and I said, oh, the story of a troll kind of fits because the whole Billy Goats Gruff thing. It's someone lying under a bridge they didn't build, demanding payment from anybody who passed. I said, how about a patent troll? <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> The name stuck, and if anything, the problem of patent trolls just got worse. From 2004 to 2009, the number of patent infringement lawsuits jumped by 70%. Licensing fee requests, like what happened to Peter Detkin and to FotoTime, went up 650%. Today, pretty much any time you talk to a computer or tech person in Silicon Valley and the subject of patents comes up, everyone groans. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> I hear those groans a lot. I live out here in San Francisco, and just to get a flavor of this, the other day I went down to a park called South Park around noon. It's a place where a lot of tech workers eat their lunch. And the sentiment is universal. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> If I say patents system, what do you say? <SUBJECT:MAN 1> I think it's just a way for lawyers to make money and basically, it's a killer for creativity. <SUBJECT:MAN 2> Complicated, broken. <SUBJECT:MAN 3> It's basically a flimflam game that anybody who knows how to take advantage of it is doing. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> Do you kind of groan when you hear the word? <SUBJECT:MAN 4> I do, yeah. You want to hear a groan for the radio? <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> Yeah, let's hear a groan. <SUBJECT:MAN 4> Grrrrr. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> If I say the word patent troll, does any company or any entity come to mind in particular? <SUBJECT:MAN 5> Like Nathan Myhrvold, I guess, and whatever his company is. It has some stupid name, like Associate Associates or something like that, I don't know. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> The name he's searching for is Intellectual Ventures, the company Nathan Myhrvold founded in 2000. Nathan Myhrvold used to be the chief technology officer at Microsoft, where he made a lot of money, hundreds of millions of dollars. Even if you haven't heard of Intellectual Ventures, you might have heard of Nathan Myhrvold. <SUBJECT:STEPHEN COLBERT> My guest tonight has written a six-volume book on cutting-edge food made with modern science. Please welcome Nathan Myhrvold. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> This is Myhrvold on the television show The Colbert Report talking about another one of his ventures, an opus on the science of cooking, which teaches you how to do things like make ice cream with liquid nitrogen. Myhrvold is the kind of guy the press loves to profile. <SUBJECT:STEPHEN COLBERT> You are a polymath. You're a Renaissance man. You're a world barbecue champion now. You've discovered T. rex fossils. You've studied quantum physics with Stephen Hawking. And you have a new six-volume, 40-pound, $625 book called Modernist Cuisine. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> But this image of Nathan Myhrvold who gives TED talks and generally plays the role of an avuncular elder statesman for the tech industry is at odds with the image of his company, Intellectual Ventures. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> There's an influential blog in Silicon Valley called Techdirt, which regularly refers to Intellectual Ventures as a patent troll. Another blog, IPWatchdog, called Intellectual Ventures patent troll public enemy number one. And the Wall Street Journal's law blog had an article about Intellectual Ventures titled "Innovative Invention Company Or Giant Patent Troll?" <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> These articles talk about how IV has amassed one of the largest patent portfolios in existence. How it's going around the technology companies demanding money to license these patents. But the thing is, people at companies that have been approached by Intellectual Ventures won't talk about it. <SUBJECT:CHRIS SACCA> There is a lot of fear about Intellectual Ventures. You don't want to make yourself a target. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> This is Chris Sacca, an entrepreneur and venture capitalist in Silicon Valley who was an early investor in companies like Twitter and FanBridge and lots of other startups. He wouldn't say if Intellectual Ventures had been in contact with his companies. <SUBJECT:CHRIS SACCA> I tried to put you in touch with other people in this community to talk to you about this and they almost uniformly said they couldn't talk to you. They're afraid to. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> And we should just cut in here and say when Chris says, "this community," he's talking about the community of multimillionaire venture capitalists that he hangs around with. Not a timid crowd. Back to Chris. <SUBJECT:CHRIS SACCA> They almost uniformly said they couldn't talk to you. They're afraid to. And they didn't even hem and haw about it. They just said, they're afraid to talk about this issue on the record. It's such a mismatched fight that your best defensive option is security by obscurity. They have the potential to literally obliterate startups. <SUBJECT:NATHAN MYHRVOLD> Intellectual Ventures is a company that invests in invention. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> This, of course, is Nathan Myhrvold. I went to talk to him and spent a day at his company. And not surprisingly, Nathan Myhrvold had a very different story about what he's up to. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> Are you a patent troll? <SUBJECT:NATHAN MYHRVOLD> Well, that's a term that has been used by people to mean someone they don't like who has patents. I think you would find almost anyone who stands up for their patent rights has been called a patent troll. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> Intellectual Ventures says Myhrvold is just the opposite. They're on the side of inventors. They pay inventors for patents. They gather these patents together into this huge warehouse of invention that companies can use if they want. Sort of like a department store for patents. Whatever technology you're looking for, Intellectual Ventures has it. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> And when reporters come to visit Myhrvold to underline this idea that IV is all about invention, he takes them to see this. <SUBJECT:GEOFF DEANE> Out here we're standing on the brink of our machine shop. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> I'm on a tour with Geoff Deane, who runs the Intellectual Ventures Invention Lab. About 100 people work here. The lab is massive. There are people walking around in white lab coats mixing chemicals in beakers and looking at stuff under microscopes. There's a machine shop, a nanotechnology section. It's like a playground for scientists and engineers. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> And if you ask them what they've invented so far, there's a couple things they point to. The nuclear technology, they say, is safer and greener than existing technologies. A cooler that can keep vaccines cold for months without electricity. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> And the world's most high-tech mosquito zapper, which senses mosquitoes from hundreds of feet away by detecting the speed of their wings. <SUBJECT:GEOFF DEANE> Well, on one side you have a reflector. On the other side you have something that's looking down range at the reflector. And any time a mosquito flies between there, it actually finds the mosquito and shoots it out of the air as fast as you can imagine. So it takes about a tenth of a second for it to find the mosquito, identify it as a mosquito, and kill it. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> Like a missile defense shield for mosquitoes. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> But the fact is, this lab is a tiny fraction of what the company does. Intellectual Ventures has received a little over 1,000 patents on stuff they've come up with here, which pales in comparison to the more than 30,000 patents they've bought from other people. In fact, nothing that's come out of this lab, not the mosquito zapper, not the nuclear technology, nothing has made it into commercial use. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> But Intellectual Ventures says, that's not our job. Our job, they say, is to encourage invention. For example, imagine an inventor out there, someone with a brilliant idea, a breakthrough. This inventor has a patent, but still, companies are stealing his idea and he doesn't have the money or legal savvy to stop them. That's where Intellectual Ventures comes in. They buy this inventor's patent and make sure that companies who are using the idea pay for it. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> A lot of people I met at IV told me some version of this story. We are promoting innovation by supporting inventors. And when I asked for an example of an inventor in this situation, someone with a breakthrough who wasn't getting paid for it, two separate people pointed me to the same guy. <SUBJECT:JOE CHERNESKY> There's one story I can think of, a gentleman named Chris Crawford. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> This is one of the people who mentioned Chris Crawford, Joe Chernesky, a vice president at Intellectual Ventures. <SUBJECT:JOE CHERNESKY> The neat thing about Chris is he had no idea how to get money for his patents. He had this great idea. These patents were immensely valuable because every technology company was adopting the technology, yet he didn't know how to get paid. He eventually found Intellectual Ventures, so we bought those patents. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> So I figured, I want to talk to this guy. Not so simple. It turned out trying to talk to Chris Crawford took us on a five-month odyssey, where things didn't exactly fit the story that Intellectual Ventures was telling us. It started when I called Intellectual Ventures to get Chris Crawford's contact info. I got a strange email back in response. I was told, "they no longer own Chris Crawford's patent." And I was told, "he probably wouldn't want to talk to me right now because he was in the middle of litigation." <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> That just made us curious, so we started digging around. We found Chris Crawford in Clearwater, Florida. But as predicted, he never responded to our many emails and phone calls. You will never hear from him in this story. We were able, though, to locate his patent. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> Patent number 5771354. He got it in 1998, back in the relatively early days of the internet. And the way IV explained the patent to us, Chris Crawford invented something that we all do all the time now. He figured out a way to upgrade the software on your home computer over the internet. So in other words, when you turn on your computer and a little box pops up and says, click here to upgrade to the newest version of iTunes, that was Chris Crawford's idea. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> But when we looked at the patent, it seemed to claim a lot more than that. The patent says, this invention makes it possible to connect to an online service provider to do a bunch of stuff-- software purchases, online rentals, data backups, information storage. The patent makes it seem like this one guy, Chris Crawford, invented a lot of what we do on the internet every day. We weren't sure what to make of this, so we turned to an expert. <SUBJECT:DAVID MARTIN> You're going to start by looking at the left- and right-hand screens. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> This is David Martin, who runs a company called M-CAM. They're hired by governments, banks, businesses, to assess patent quality, which they do with this fancy software program. We asked him to assess Chris Crawford's patent. <SUBJECT:DAVID MARTIN> Now, if you would, please, just click on the patent number itself, Laura. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> The software program actually scans through millions of patents and analyzes them to see if any of them overlap. <SUBJECT:DAVID MARTIN> That's a bad number. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> An idea being patented is supposed to be non-obvious to a person of ordinary skill in the art. What that means is that you shouldn't be able to get a patent for just a common sense good idea. It has to be a breakthrough. <SUBJECT:DAVID MARTIN> That's correct. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> In other words, we shouldn't be seeing what we are seeing on David Martin's computer screen. <SUBJECT:DAVID MARTIN> 5,303 patents that were issued while his was being prosecuted, which covered the same material. 5,303. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> And so that means that at the same time that Chris Crawford's patent was getting issued-- <SUBJECT:DAVID MARTIN> Only 5,303 other people were pursuing the same thing. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> And when you say the same thing-- <SUBJECT:DAVID MARTIN> I mean the same thing. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> David Martin may be exaggerating a little here for effect, but as we look through some of the patents that are on the screen, the resemblances are pretty clear. Remember, Chris Crawford's patent is for quote "an online backup system." <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> And on David Martin's computer screen, we see lots of patents with slightly different language, but covering essentially the same idea. For example, patent number 6003044, for quote "efficiently backing up files using multiple computer systems." Patent 5933653, for quote "mirroring data in a remote data storage system." And then, there were three different patents with three different patent numbers, but that all had the same title quote, "system and method for backing up computer files over a wide area computer network." <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> David Martin says that when he first started looking into this stuff and saw all these patents that were granted for essentially the same thing-- <SUBJECT:DAVID MARTIN> We thought that would be an anomaly. And then we were told, oh no, it's not an anomaly. That happens. So that's what got us into the rabbit hole you're about to see. Which is to say, well, let's see how many times that happens. And as I've testified in Congress, that happens about 30% of the time in US patents. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> That is, 30% of US patents are essentially for things that have already been invented. <SUBJECT:DAVID MARTIN> So, for example, toast becomes the thermal refreshening of a bread product. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> These are real patents? <SUBJECT:DAVID MARTIN> Yes. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> There's a patent on toast? <SUBJECT:DAVID MARTIN> Yes, thermally refreshened bread, not on toast. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> Ladies and gentlemen, patent number 6080436, bread refreshing method, issued in 2000. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> And we talked to another expert who told us Chris Crawford's patent was actually similar to the toast patent in one respect. <SUBJECT:RICK MCLEOD> None of this was actually new. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> Rick McLeod is a patent lawyer and former software engineer who we also asked to evaluate Chris Crawford's patent. So he went on a search. This is how patent lawyers research this kind of thing. He looked to see if anyone else in the field was already doing the thing Chris Crawford claimed to invent in 1993 when he first filed his patent. <SUBJECT:RICK MCLEOD> There were institutions, both academic and businesses, that used computers in this way. And I think it's a very interesting collection of things that were well known in the 1980s, with the exception of it adds on the word internet. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> Do you think this patent should have been issued in the first place? <SUBJECT:RICK MCLEOD> No, I don't. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> And in fact, for a long time, the Patent Office would have agreed with Rick McLeod. The Patent Office used to be very reluctant to issue patents for software. For decades, it considered software to be like language. Software programs were more like books or articles. You could copyright them, but you couldn't patent them. They weren't inventions like the cotton gin. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> But the federal courts stepped in and they started chipping away at this interpretation. There was a big decision in 1994 and another one in 1998, which rejected the Patent Office's view. The Patent Office got the memo and a flood of software patents followed. A lot of people in Silicon Valley wish that that had never happened, including a very surprising group-- software engineers. <SUBJECT:STEPHAN BRUNNER> I have to say I actually worked on a whole bunch of patents in my career over the years and I have to say that every single patent is nothing but crap. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> This is Stephan Brunner, a programmer. He said something we heard from a lot of software engineers. His software patents don't even make sense to him. <SUBJECT:STEPHAN BRUNNER> I can't tell you for the hell of it what they're actually supposed to do. Because the company said we have to do a patent on this, and then they send in a lawyer. You basically say, that's probably right. That's probably wrong. And they just write something up. It makes no sense. And personally when I look at them, I'm not proud at all because most of them again, it's just like mumbo jumbo, which nobody understands, and which makes no sense from an engineering standpoint whatsoever. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> Stephan Brunner, patent 7650296 quote, "a configurator using structure and rules to provide a user interface." One sample section and trust me, the whole thing is like this. "According to one embodiment of the invention, a customizable product class is created. A component product class is added to the customizable product class where the component product class is a sub-class of the customizable product." <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> In polls, as many as 80% of software engineers say the patent system actually hinders innovation. In other words, it does exactly the opposite of what it's supposed to do. It doesn't encourage them to come up with new ideas and create new products, it actually gets in their way. Here's another programmer, Adam Cohen. <SUBJECT:ADAM COHEN> I work for a company, which I'm not going to say, that at the end of the company we tried to patent-- we did successfully patent our software that we made. And that patent is really meaningless because everybody that has an internet website, basically almost today, uses the stuff that we patented to make their website work. Almost everybody. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> This, we heard, happens all the time-- patents that are so broad, everyone's guilty of infringement. Which causes huge problems for almost anyone trying to start or grow a business on the internet. <SUBJECT:CHRIS SACCA> We're at a point in the state of intellectual property where existing patents probably cover every single behavior that's happening on the internet and our mobile phones today. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> This, again, is Chris Sacca, the investor you heard from earlier, who helped lots of companies, including Twitter, get off the ground. <SUBJECT:CHRIS SACCA> So I have no doubt that the average Silicon Valley startup, or even medium-sized company, no matter how truly innovative they are, I have no doubt that aspects of whatever they're doing violate patents that are out there right now. And that's what's fundamentally broken about this system right now. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> And this brings us back to patent 5771354, Chris Crawford's patent, the patent Intellectual Ventures pointed us to as an example of how they encourage innovation. As we've said, this patent also seems to cover a big chunk of what's happening on the internet-- upgrading software, buying stuff online, what's called cloud storage, storing data on the internet. If you have a patent on all that, you could sue a lot of people and make a lot of money. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> And in fact, that's what's happening with Chris Crawford's patent. Intellectual Ventures sold it to another company, a company called Oasis Research, in June of 2010. Less than a month later, Oasis Research used the patent to sue 16 different tech companies-- companies like Rackspace, Go Daddy, and AT&T, companies that do cloud storage. <SUBJECT:OPERATOR> You have reached Oasis Research. At the tone, please leave your name-- <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> I called the number on Oasis's website numerous times, but an actual human being never picked up. For a while, the message directed all questions to a lawyer in New York named John Desmarais. He also didn't return our phone calls, although I did track him down at a conference in San Francisco. I ran up to him right after a talk and asked him what he could tell me about Oasis Research. <SUBJECT:JOHN DESMARAIS> I can't talk about folks I represent. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> Do you know who owns Oasis Research to reach them? <SUBJECT:JOHN DESMARAIS> Yes, I do. Yes, but I'm not going to tell you. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> I mean, they're bringing a suit and you literally can't tell us who owns the company? <SUBJECT:JOHN DESMARAIS> I'm not going to answer questions about pending lawsuits for you. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> Another question. Is there any chance at a later date of actually talking to you more generally? <SUBJECT:JOHN DESMARAIS> I don't think so, but thanks for asking. Although, I love NPR and I love the work that you guys do. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> Behavior like this makes it hard not to think, are you hiding something? When someone says, yes, I know, but I'm not going to tell you, it really makes you want to find stuff out. There was hardly any public information about Oasis Research, minimal corporate filings. No way to know who owned it, how many employees it had, if it even had employees at all. One of the few details that was available: an address, in Marshall, Texas. 104 East Houston Street, Suite 190. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL SMITH> Right now we're going into the first floor of the Baxter Building, which is 104 East Houston. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> This is Michael Smith. He's an attorney in Marshall, Texas, who does mostly patent cases. He agreed to show us the offices of Oasis Research. They're in a nondescript, two-story building on the town's main square, two doors down from the federal courthouse. He led us into a narrow corridor lined with doors with gold and black office name plates. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL SMITH> And here we go, suite 190, Oasis Research LLC. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> It was late morning on a weekday-- not a holiday-- but the door was locked. Through the crack underneath you could see there were no lights on inside. Marshall is a very small town, 24,000 people. Michael was born and raised here, so we started quizzing him about Oasis. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> Does it have any employees that you know about? <SUBJECT:MICHAEL SMITH> Not that I know of. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> Have you ever seen any people coming in and out of that office? <SUBJECT:MICHAEL SMITH> No, I haven't. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> Is this office ever occupied? <SUBJECT:MICHAEL SMITH> I doubt that it is. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> If you don't mind, I'm going to knock on that door and just see if there's anyone here today. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> I know this is kind of a cliche at this point, knocking on the door of the suspected fake office-- <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> Nothing. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> But we'd flown a long way. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> But I will say, standing in that corridor was eerie. All the other doors looked exactly the same-- locked, name plates over the door, no light coming out. It was a corridor of silent, empty offices. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL SMITH> Right next door to Software Rights Archive, Bulletproof Technology of Texas, Jelly Fish Technology of Texas, and a couple others that I recognize as plaintiffs in cases that we're involved in here. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> Are there are a lot of companies like this here in East Texas? <SUBJECT:MICHAEL SMITH> Yes. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> And we're standing in the whole corridor of them, it seems like. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL SMITH> Yes. This would be ground zero, yes. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> So what's going on here? It turns out a lot of those companies in that corridor, maybe every single one of them, are doing exactly what Oasis Research is doing. They appear to have no employees. They're not making new inventions here. They're filing lawsuits for patent infringement. Patent lawsuits, says Michael Smith, are big business in Marshall, part of the Eastern District of Texas. Walking back across the town square past the Eastern District Courthouse, Michael explained it. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL SMITH> The Eastern District in the last few years has been either number one or number two or three in the nation in numbers of patent cases. The list of the patent cases at this courthouse would be about 2,000 cases long. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> As we walked past the courthouse, as if to drive the point home, a gaggle of lawyers emerges-- dozens and dozens of dark suits in the hot Texas sun. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL SMITH> They're taking their mid-morning break during a patent trial that started yesterday morning in front of Magistrate Judge Everingham. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> It's quite something to see all these-- it is, in this case, it's mostly men in suits, a couple women just streaming out of that courthouse one after another, this little federal courthouse. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL SMITH> They travel in packs. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> We talked to many people about why this is so. Why do all these New York and San Francisco-based companies come to tiny Marshall to battle in court? <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> Many people say it has to do with juries in Marshall. They are famously plaintiff friendly, friendly to patent owners trying to get a large verdict. But Michael Smith, who's argued on both sides of numerous patent cases, says that might have been true once, but not anymore. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> He says they're in Marshall because of the drug war. Basically, in the '90s, federal courts everywhere were clogged with drug cases. Civil cases like patent cases couldn't get in front of a judge because criminal cases take precedence. So companies with patent suits had to find a spot with fewer criminals to prosecute-- hence, sleepy Marshall, Texas. Our visit to Marshall made us realize, something big is going on here in Texas, and Oasis Research is part of it. 2,000 lawsuits making the same essential claim Intellectual Ventures makes. There's an inventor whose invention is being stolen, used without permission. But there were no inventors here, just corridors of empty offices and a lot of lawyers. It made us wonder, what else about Intellectual Ventures is not what it appears to be? <HOST:IRA GLASS> Alex Blumberg and Laura Sydell. Coming up, we go back to Intellectual Ventures for answers, and we find out what a patent has in common with a weapon of mass destruction. That's in a minute, from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International, when our program continues.    <HOST:IRA GLASS> It's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass. Today on our show, "When Patents Attack," stories about how our patent system sometimes seems to be discouraging rather than encouraging innovation in high-tech businesses. A quick review of where we are in our story. OK, there's this company called Intellectual Ventures. They told our reporters that they, if they wanted to understand what the company was all about, should talk to this inventor that Intellectual Ventures helped out. The guy is a patent holder named Chris Crawford. But when our reporters tried to contact Chris Crawford, he won't return any phone calls. He won't return emails. We found out his patent has actually been sold by Intellectual Ventures. They no longer own it. It is now being used to sue over a dozen different tech businesses. And the company doing the suing, called Oasis Research, has no researchers, no employees of any kind that we can find. And its only place of business seems to be an empty office in a corridor of empty offices in a small town in Texas. So our reporters, Laura Sydell and Alex Blumberg, had a lot of questions. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> Some of the questions seemed like they should have been simple to answer, but they weren't. For example, when did Intellectual Ventures actually buy the patent from Chris Crawford? There's a document that's publicly available on the US Patent Office website. It traces a patent's ownership history. In the case of Chris Crawford's patent, though, the ownership history was really hard to understand. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> The first owner is clear. It's Chris Crawford, who was granted the patent in 1998. And then it's clear that a company named Intellectual Ventures Computing Platforce Assets LLC-- no one could actually tell us what a platforce is-- bought the patent in July of 2010. But in between those two dates, there are two other owners, a company called Kwon Holdings and another one named Enhanced Software LLC. And what was odd, Kwon Holdings, Enhanced Software, and Intellectual Ventures all have the same address. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> We went back to Intellectual Ventures to clear some of this stuff up. Now there's one thing we need to explain before we tell you what happened there. Remember the guy at the very beginning of our story, Peter Detkin, the guy who coined the term patent troll after his daughter's doll? The guy who hates patent trolls. You'll never guess what he's doing now. <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN> I'm a founder and vice chairman of Intellectual Ventures here in Silicon Valley. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> That's right. The guy who coined the term patent troll teamed up with Nathan Myhrvold to start a company that many people call the biggest patent troll out there. Peter Detkin obviously disagrees with this characterization. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> So anyway, we went to Peter Detkin to ask our questions, and we started off by showing him that publicly available page on the US Patent Office website. And we asked him what seemed like a pretty straightforward question. When exactly did Intellectual Ventures buy Chris Crawford's patent? It turns out this was the question that completely threw him off and led the PR woman who was in the room with us to jump in and to try and shut down the interview. You'll hear her voice in the background. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> This is just the patent history of Chris's patent. And honestly, we just don't understand this. So if you could explain what we're looking at here. He invented it in 1998. <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN> I didn't put my reading glasses on, so I'm struggling a little bit here. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> Right, so he invented this-- <SUBJECT:PR WOMAN> I don't know that diving into the history of this patent is necessary. <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN> I don't know where you're going with this. What's the question? What are you trying to find out? <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> If you could explain, the story you're telling is that you bought this patent from this inventor, Chris Crawford, and then you sold it a little bit later. But then if you actually look at the history, it's a very different story. It seems very different. So I'm trying to figure out if you could explain to us-- <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN> I won't be able to tell you by looking at this. I mean, I'd have to talk-- I'm not an expert in-- you're on the USPTO website? I haven't looked at this particular website in a while. I don't know how it's organized. I'm trying to be helpful, but the fact is I know we bought it from some entity of his. And apparently, we then sold it, and again, I have some vague recollection of us doing that deal. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> Wait, are you telling me that you run a patent company and you were the head counsel for Intel in the patent department-- you don't know what the patent office website-- you don't know how to read this? <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN> Look, I mean, I could look at this if you want. But I haven't looked at this particular website and I don't know how it's organized. And I'm not exactly sure what it is you're trying to get at. So I'm happy to answer questions, but if you're going to cross-examine me about-- on the record about a patent website, I don't think that's quite fair. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> So, for example, one question is, when was it sold to Intellectual Ventures? Because it's sold a number of times, but it's sold a number of times to different companies with the same address as Intellectual Ventures. Does that mean that it was sold to Intellectual Ventures or not? <SUBJECT:PR WOMAN> It's a little different and we're not going to talk about this. <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN> I have no idea. There's no way without knowing the details of this particular deal I could ever possibly answer that question. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> We were honestly surprised at this response. It wasn't like this was a secret document or something. What was the big deal about answering this seemingly simple question? <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> Part of it certainly was that we took them a little bit by surprise. I take him at his word that they do a lot of deals and he doesn't know the details of every one. But we talked to another guy, an intellectual property lawyer named Tom Ewing, who suggested there might have been more to it than that. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> Tom Ewing told us those other companies listed on that Patent Office document-- Kwon Holdings and Enhanced Software-- they might very well be Intellectual Ventures, what he calls Intellectual Ventures shell companies. Tom Ewing makes a business of tracking them. He started it as sort of a private challenge to himself. <SUBJECT:TOM EWING> I heard for the longest time when they first started that they had everything in shell companies and no one could ever find it. And I kept hearing that so much, and it irritated me because I figured that I could, if I just sat down and started looking. So I did. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> How many shell companies do you personally believe that Intellectual Ventures has, based on your research? <SUBJECT:TOM EWING> Very close to 1,300. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> So we asked Tom Ewing what seemed like an obvious question. Is Oasis Research a shell company of Intellectual Ventures? And he said, probably not. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> Tom said Oasis more likely falls into a second category, companies that are independently owned, but with close links to Intellectual Ventures. For example, John Desmarais, the lawyer representing Oasis, also represents Intellectual Ventures in lots of cases, and has links to that company going back almost a decade. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> And Tom said there's evidence that Intellectual Ventures might be getting a cut of whatever money Oasis receives from its lawsuits. He shows us a document that's called "a certification of interested parties." <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> The court in Texas required that Oasis list all the entities who have a financial stake in the outcome of the case. This is a standard form that pretty much all plaintiffs in civil cases have to file. Oasis listed the parties that most people list-- the plaintiff, the defendants, the attorneys involved. But it added one other name, Intellectual Ventures. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> So we went back to Intellectual Ventures one more time to talk to Peter Detkin. We picked up where we left off the last time-- when did Intellectual Ventures actually buy Chris Crawford's patent? And this time he had no hesitation about explaining it. It turns out Tom Ewing had been right. Those other mysterious companies-- Kwon Holdings and Enhanced Software-- they were Intellectual Ventures' shell companies. <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN> This is when we bought it, October of 2007, from CMC Software to Kwon Holdings, and Kwon is a company that we created to purchase these assets. Then when we actually struck a deal and prepared to sell it, in the name of transparency, we changed it to the Intellectual Ventures Computing Platforce Assets. Please don't ask me what a platforce is. I don't know what it is. And then in August of 2010, we sold it to Oasis Research. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> We showed Detkin that court document from the Oasis case listing Intellectual Ventures as an interested party. <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN> OK, and it does list the Intellectual Ventures Computing Platforce Assets as an interested party. I see that. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> And you don't know why in this instance you're listed? <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN> I believe it's because we likely have a back-end arrangement here. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> What does a back-end deal mean, just-- <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN> We sell for some amount of money up front, and we get some percentage of the royalty stream down the road that is generated from the monetization of these assets. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> So just to spell this out, Peter Detkin is saying it's likely that Intellectual Ventures is taking a cut of whatever money Oasis gets from its lawsuits-- Oasis, a company with no operations, no products, and as far as we can tell no employees, whose only activity seems to be taking a very broad patent from 1998 and using it to sue over a dozen internet companies today. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> And so we asked him, how does it feel making money from an entity, which is behaving a lot like the patent trolls that he once condemned? <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN> These are patents we used to hold, we no longer hold. And we ensure that we have no control over the actions of these third parties. They are independent actors. They're not Intellectual Ventures. They may be monetizing in ways that we disagree with, but it's not our call. It's theirs. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> You're also still getting paid. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> Yeah, so I sort of feel like, yeah, well, but what do you expect? You must have some knowledge that it's highly likely these people are going to go and bring lawsuits, especially since they're companies that only have these largely run by attorneys. <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN> Sure, I understand. I'm not disputing any of that. What I'm trying to say, and I apologize if I'm not being clear, is that we do believe, we believe in our heart, that litigation is a highly inefficient way to do licensing. But let's not lose sight that litigation is just licensing by other means. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> In other words, we try to license these patents in a friendly way, but sometimes you have to sue. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> Peter Detkin then repeated the company line that we'd heard from a lot of people at IV, that the mission of Intellectual Ventures is to help inventors bring great ideas into the world. That lots of inventors, they're like great artists. Brilliant, but not brilliant at business, so their patents languish. IV gets their ideas into the hands of companies who will actually build what they've invented. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> So can you point me to a patent that you acquired that was languishing that then got licensed to somebody and built in a way that I could see? <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN> I can tell you that it's happened, but unfortunately the deal's confidential. There are two deals that were done. One was with a toy company and the other was-- I can't remember the technology of the other one. But they came to us and they said, we're interested in this particular patent. We'd like to take it out into the world. Will you give us a license? We did. And they put it out there. It was out there for last Christmas. I actually don't know how it's done. I'd be curious to find out myself. But I agree, that's an anomaly. I see where you're going with your question and I don't mean to fight you on it. The fact is the bulk of our patents, the bulk of our revenue, is from people using inven-- they were using it before we bought it, and they are using it after we bought it, but we provided an efficient way for them to get access to those invention rights. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> The way I hear what you're saying, the way I translate it in my head is they were using it before without paying a license and nobody was bothering them. And now they are paying a license to you. Why is that a better situation? <SUBJECT:PETER DETKIN> Well, because we want to incentivize the guy who invented it. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> That is, if companies pay their licenses, inventors make more money, which in turn, gives them incentive to invent more stuff. This is the rhetorical cul-de-sac where every argument with Peter Detkin ends. But here's the problem with that argument. IV is not buying inventions. They're buying patents. And as we've heard, as most software engineers will tell you, at least when it comes to computers and the internet, a patent and an invention are not the same. Lots of patents cover things that people in the field wouldn't consider inventions at all. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> And these patents out there, that aren't for something novel, or are so broad they can cover anything, every single one of them can be used to bring lawsuits. In response, all the big tech companies have started amassing troves of software patents, not to build anything, but to defend themselves. If a company's patent hoard is big enough, it can say essentially, if you try to sue me with your patents, I'll sue you with mine. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> It's the old mutually assured destruction. Except instead of arsenals of nuclear weapons, it's arsenals of patents. And this was a problem Intellectual Ventures founder Nathan Myhrvold said he was trying to solve when he first started his company, a problem that he and others from Intellectual Ventures talked about in investor meetings all around Silicon Valley. Chris Sacca was there at one of them. <SUBJECT:CHRIS SACCA> I think I saw Nathan for the first time present the idea of Intellectual Ventures in either the fall of 2007 or the spring of 2008. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> And the pitch he heard was, basically, Intellectual Ventures helps defend against lawsuits. Intellectual Ventures has this hoard of 35,000 patents-- 35,000 patents that, for a price, companies can access and use to defend themselves. <SUBJECT:CHRIS SACCA> They pay administrative fees ranging from the tens of thousands to the millions and millions of dollars, all into this entity to kind of buy themselves insurance that protects them from being sued by any harmful, malevolent outsiders. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> In other words, Intellectual Ventures goes around to companies and says, hey, you want to protect yourself from lawsuits? We own tons of patents. Make a deal with us. Our patents will not only cover everything you're doing in your business, no one will dare sue you. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> But to Chris Sacca, there's an implication in there. If you don't join us, who knows what will happen? Which reminds him of the business practices of another organization. <SUBJECT:CHRIS SACCA> A Mafia-style shakedown, where somebody comes in the front door of your building and says, it'd be a shame if this place burned down. I know the neighborhood really well and I can make sure that doesn't happen. And saying, pay us up. Now here's what's funny. When I've seen Nathan speak publicly about this, and when I've seen spokespeople from Intellectual Ventures, they constantly remind us that they, themselves, don't bring lawsuits. That they, themselves, are not litigators. That they're a defensive player. But the truth is that the threat of their patent arsenal can't actually be realized. It can't be taken seriously unless they have that offensive posture, unless they're willing to assert those patents. And so it's this very delicate balancing act that is quite reminiscent of scenes you see in movies when the Mafia comes to visit your butcher shop. And they say to you, hey, it would be a real shame if somebody else came and sued you. Tell you what-- pay us an exorbitant membership fee into our collective and we'll keep you protected that way. A protection scheme isn't that credible unless some butcher shops burn down now and then. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> We told Intellectual Ventures that Chris Sacca compared their business to a Mafia shakedown. And in an email, Peter Detkin called that "ridiculous and offensive." He then reiterated some of the arguments you've heard about how IV protects inventors, and went on to say quote, "we're a disruptive company that's providing a way for patent holders to recognize value--" recognize value, he means make money-- "that wasn't available before we came on the scene. And we are making a big impact on the market. That obviously makes people uncomfortable, but no amount of name calling changes the fact that ideas have value." <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> True enough, but lately it seems like a lot of butcher shops have been burning. As we were reporting this story, more and more Intellectual Ventures patents started showing up in the hands of companies like Oasis, companies without employees or operations, who were formed for the purpose of filing lawsuits. They're known as non-practicing entities, or NPEs. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> One former IV patent was used by an NPE to sue 19 different companies-- a seemingly random assortment, which included Dell Computers, Abercrombie & Fitch, Visa, UPS. What's the suit about? These companies all have websites that when you scroll your mouse over certain sections, pop-up boxes appear. This NPE said, we have a patent on that. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> Another group of former IV patents is being used in one of the most controversial and most talked-about cases in Silicon Valley right now. An NPE called Lodsys is suing almost three dozen companies and counting. These are small- and medium-sized companies developing apps for iPhone and Android smartphones. Lodsys says every time you buy something within a smartphone app, they own the patent on that. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> And one interesting wrinkle about that case, the address of Lodsys, 104 East Houston Street, Marshall, Texas, Suite 190-- the same exact address, down to the suite number, as Oasis Research. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> Tom Ewing, the lawyer who keeps track of Intellectual Ventures, says that all this behavior has led people to come up with a special name for the company. <SUBJECT:TOM EWING> The troll on steroids. <INTERVIEWER:LAURA SYDELL> Do you think it's a troll on steroids? <SUBJECT:TOM EWING> I don't want to complicate things, but I personally think there's a whole lot of gray. For example, they've already collected $2 billion worth of royalties, so they say. And you have to ask yourself, of the $2 billion in royalties they've collected, how much of those royalties that they've collected are based on reasonable licensing fees that the people they received it from should have paid? And how much of it is simply based on trying to avoid litigation? And I would say it's probably a mix of both. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> The problem is to try and figure out what that mix actually looks like is virtually impossible. We called dozens of people. We called people who had licensing arrangements with Intellectual Ventures. We called people who were defendants in lawsuits involving Intellectual Ventures patents. We called every single company being sued by Oasis Research, all 16 of them. No one would talk to us. Partly this is fear. Partly Intellectual Ventures is said to have the strictest non-disclosure agreement in Silicon Valley. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> The Oasis Research case is still ongoing, but many of the original defendants seem to have settled. Michael Smith, the attorney in Marshall, Texas, who showed us the Oasis offices, represented one of those defendants. He was pretty sure they would have won the case if they'd gone to trial, but his client settled anyway. He says, sometimes it makes more sense to settle and pay a license fee than to spend $2 to $5 million on a court case. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> Tom Ewing, the lawyer who tracks Intellectual Ventures, says it's likely we're going to see plenty more of these cases in the future. And that's based just on the math of IV's business model. In order to purchase its 35,000 patents, Intellectual Ventures got money from investors-- a lot of money, more than $5 billion. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> And a lot of these investors are venture capitalists who expect very high returns. These are people who are looking for the next Google, the next Apple, people who want to get back many times what they put in. Since its founding in 2000, Intellectual Ventures has generated $2 billion in revenue. But to keep its investors happy, over the next 10 years, says Tom Ewing, they're going to have to do a lot better than that. <SUBJECT:TOM EWING> So if you calculate this out, that means that over, say, a 10-year period, they are going to need to collect about $35 billion in licensing revenue. Which in order for them to be successful among the people who they're trying to compare themselves with. IV seems to have signed a number of deals. If the stream of deals they're signing doesn't increase significantly, then I would imagine they will be forced to file more litigations in order to achieve their revenue targets. <HOST:LAURA SYDELL> Tom's prediction already seems to be coming true. Earlier this month, Intellectual Ventures itself filed a patent infringement suit in federal court against several companies it claimed were infringing some patents it owns. In early July, the bankrupt tech company Nortel put its 6,000 patents up for auction as part of a liquidation. A bidding war broke out between the Silicon Valley powerhouses. Google said in press accounts that it wanted the patents purely to defend itself against lawsuits, and it was willing to spend over $3 billion to get them. But that wasn't enough. The portfolio eventually sold to Apple and a strange consortium of other tech companies, including Apple competitor Microsoft. The price tag? $4.5 billion, five times the opening bid. More than double what most people were expecting. The largest patent auction in history. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> Think of that. $4.5 billion on patents that these companies almost certainly don't want for their technical secrets. That $4.5 billion won't build anything new, won't bring new products to the shelves, won't open up new factories that can hire people who need jobs. That's $4.5 billion that adds to the price of every product these companies sell you, $4.5 billion essentially wasted buying arms for an ongoing patent war. The big companies-- Google, Apple, Microsoft-- will probably survive this war. The likely casualties, the companies out there that no one's ever heard of that could one day take their place. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Alex Blumberg with NPR correspondent Laura Sydell. Alex is part of our Planet Money team. On the Planet Money website you can find links to all kinds of documents and patent-related goodies, plus, of course, their podcast. That is at npr.org/money. [MUSIC - "MODERN INVENTIONS" BY THE SUBMARINES] <HOST:IRA GLASS> Our program was produced today with Ben Calhoun, Jane Feltes, Sarah Koenig, Eric Mennel, Jonathan Menjivar, Lisa Pollak, Robyn Semien, Alissa Shipp, and Nancy Updike. Our senior producer is Julie Snyder. Production help from Miki Meek. Music help from Damien Graef. Seth Lind is our production manager. Emily Condon's our office manager. [ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS] <SUBJECT:STEPHAN BRUNNER> I'm not proud at all because it's just like mumbo jumbo, which nobody understands whatsoever. <HOST:IRA GLASS> I'm Ira Glass, back next with with more stories of this American life. <HOST:ANNOUNCER> PRI, Public Radio International. <EPISODE NUMBER:414> <EPISODE NAME:Right to Remain Silent> <HOST:IRA GLASS>  From WBEZ Chicago, it's This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I'm Ira Glass. And in our show today, we have two stories that have a lot in common, but to explain the many things they have in common right here and now would reveal so many spoilers that I'm going to say very little. Rather than do the kind of introduction I usually do right here, all I'm going to say is that each of these stories centers around some guy, and the guy in each story has the right to remain silent, and he does not exercise that right. Like they say in the movies, he could take the easy way, or he could take the hard way. And each of these guys goes way out of his way to take the hard way, not totally realizing what he's getting into. And let's just get right to it. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Act One. First Rule of the Apple Store: Don't Talk About the Apple Store. At some point or another, you've probably known somebody like this, somebody who can't resist the urge to talk back. Not out of principle, but out of sheer chemical instinct. It's built into his personality. That's the guy in this first story. Ben Calhoun's the reporter. <HOST:BEN CALHOUN>  The guy in this story, and he'd tell you this himself, he's a sarcastic jerk. He's honest that way. He'll say he has no filter, he has foot in mouth disease, he's a loud mouth, a big mouth. Like, this is how he described getting kicked out of Catholic high school during his sophomore year. <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  I cursed at a nun. My English teacher was a nun, and one day she's screaming at me. Like, "we all know you're just some little thug hoodlum. And I was like, "we all know you're a [BLEEP] bitch." And they were like, "you can't go to school here anymore." And I thought that was kind of ironic, because they preach forgiveness. <INTERVIEWER:BEN CALHOUN>  So what are some other instances where being like-- <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  Being me got me in trouble? <INTERVIEWER:BEN CALHOUN>  Yeah, well just like-- mouthing off got you in trouble. <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  Every day. I got tons from the army. I got tons from high schools. I got tons from my current school. I got-- relationships, my parents. I don't know, I'm mouthy. <HOST:BEN CALHOUN>  The mouthy guy is a guy named Joe Lipari. And I should probably say, this part of Joe's personality-- it doesn't always play badly for Joe. Like when he was in the army, Joe talked back to a drill sergeant who was telling him to cut off his sideburns. Joe recited the military regulations on sideburn length from memory, which made the sergeant mad, but won over his battalion commander, who became a friend and mentor for Joe. Joe also does stand-up comedy, where mouthiness is encouraged. But those things, the good things-- that's not why we're here. This thing that happened to Joe, it started in September of 2009 when Joe needed a new cell phone. <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  I switched to the iPhone with all my friends. We thought we were cool. And mine just never worked. It would freeze, it would shut off, I would charge it and then I would take it off the charger and immediately the battery would be empty of power. And it would just do all the things a computer should not do. <HOST:BEN CALHOUN>  So Joe made an appointment and went to the Apple Store. The staff did something they said should fixed the problem. And if it didn't, they said, look, just bring it back and we'll give you a totally new phone. The next day, the phone crashed on him again. <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  So right after work, I just go to the Apple Store. I get down there and that place is a zoo. It's a really pretty zoo. And so you get in there, and walk up to the concierge that checks your in and stuff at the Apple Store, the guy in the teal shirt. And any time I go up to any employee at a store I always-- because I've worked in retail many times growing up and whatever else-- I'm always very nice, like, hey how's it going? How you doing? Having a good day? And he's like, what can I do for you? I was like, I was here yesterday. My phone's broken. They told me if I come back with it broken again, they'll just switch it out and give me a new phone. The guy said, do you have an appointment? I said, no, I was here yesterday. They gave me the impression that-- just come and it's good to go. And he said, well, we're kind of busy. It's going to be probably about a two hour wait. I was like, cool. I have a book. I'm going to go sit over here. <HOST:BEN CALHOUN>  So 30 minutes go by. 45 minutes. An hour. Finally, 90 minutes. <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  90 minutes and I'm like, they've got to be calling me soon. And I just went up and was like, look it's been about two hours. Are we getting any closer to me getting up there? So he looks me up and he's like, oh, it's probably going to be about a two hour wait. I was like, I've already been here for two hours. There's no way I'm waiting for four hours. He was like, well if you had an appointment, this wouldn't happen. That's what appointments are for. You get the appointment, and then you get seen. And I was like, slow your roll. And I shoved something off the table and I stormed out. <HOST:BEN CALHOUN>  Joe hopped the subway home to Queens, and the whole way back, even after he got home, he couldn't stop thinking about it. <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  How can I spend $600 for a thing that does not work? I don't make a lot of money. And so I was kind of steaming, smoking a little pot like you do. It's medicinal, I promise. And I was watching Fight Club. Fight Club was on TV. <SUBJECT:TYLER DURDEN>  I want you to hit me as hard as you can. <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  And I was just watching Fight Club, chilling out, trying to calm myself down. <HOST:BEN CALHOUN>  So Joe's on his couch-- a big puffy boat of a couch that presumably used to be white. Joe has his laptop. He's distracting himself by looking at Facebook, and like he said, he's watching Fight Club. <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  And the scene from Fight Club comes on where Ed Norton's boss walks in with a piece of paper and he's like, I found this in a copy machine. First rule of Fight Club is-- Second rule of Fight-- like, do you know anything about this? <SUBJECT:FIGHT CLUB NARRATOR>  Well, I gotta tell you, I'd be very, very careful who you talk to about that. Because the person who wrote that is dangerous. And this button-down Oxford cloth psycho might just snap and then stalk from office to office within an ArmaLite AR-10 carbine gas-powered semiautomatic weapon pumping round after round into colleagues and coworkers. This might be someone you've known for years. Someone very, very close to you. <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  I kind of took it and paraphrased it a little bit, and my status was-- <HOST:BEN CALHOUN>  Joe's status on Facebook. <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  --and I'm reading it here, Joe Lipari might walk into it Apple Store on Fifth Avenue with an ArmaLite AR-10 gas-powered semiautomatic weapon and pump round after round into one of those smug, fruity little concierges. This may be someone you've known for years, someone very, very close to you. <HOST:BEN CALHOUN>  Just so you know, I did ask Joe about his use of the word fruity here. And he told me that no, it was not homophobic. He was just trying to describe the guy's demeanor. <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  No, I have a gay cousin. I am the least homophobic person in the world. <HOST:BEN CALHOUN>  In any case, he types this thing into Facebook and he posts it. And that's that. For like an hour, he just sits there, feet on the coffee table. <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  And I get a [KNOCKS] 'shave and a haircut, two-bits' knock on the door. And I just think, yay, one of my buddies got in, didn't have to buzz, great. <HOST:BEN CALHOUN>  Joe jumps up, goes to the front door. <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  Yeah, without even looking through the peephole, I swing the door open, kind of go to lean on the door jamb, and that's when I see that there's an officer here, standing right in front of the door, two behind him, and one at the top of the stairs covering the high ground. <HOST:BEN CALHOUN>  These weren't regular, uniformed cops. They were the guys in street clothes, the guys with black bulletproof vests. One of them had a machine gun. <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  All guns drawn, badges out, cliche policemen sunglasses, you know the whole nine yards. And the guy at the door's like, are you Joe Lipari? And I was like, uh, yeah. Well you seem pretty nervous Joe. Well, not every day a guy with an MP5 is knocking on my door. What can I do for you? Is everything OK? And he's like, well you seem to know a lot about guns. <HOST:BEN CALHOUN>  It's worth stopping here. There was a perfectly good explanation for why Joe could identify the officer's machine gun, something called an MP5. Remember, Joe was in the military. He was a marksman in the army. And he could've said that. He probably should have said it. But of course, he didn't. <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  Well, me being a sarcastic jerk, I go, well I watch a lot of Bond movies-- which I giggle, and they don't. <HOST:BEN CALHOUN>  What the officers did do then was searched Joe's apartment. And they were asking him all kinds of confusing questions, like about explosives. And Joe, he was trying to figure out why they were there in the first place. <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  During the week or two before, they had caught some terrorist, or a wannabe terrorist in Queens. So maybe, something in my building, something in the neighborhood, I had no idea. I'm just trying to defuse the situation, make jokes, trying to show these guys-- I'm not trouble. I couldn't be any further from it. <HOST:BEN CALHOUN>  Also remember, while all this is going on, Joe is high. Cops with machine guns are all over his apartment, pulling out drawers and tearing things apart. He has no idea why, and he's totally stoned. <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  The one cop point at the marijuana on the coffee table and kind of snickers. And the other one is like, well, are you a big fan of the reefer? I said, I kind of go through phases if there's a stressful day. And two of them go looking around, and the one stays back with me. And he tries to buddy-buddy with me. He's like, yeah, I understand. I used to be an alcoholic. And in my mind, I'm like, well it's not really the same thing, but all right. And the one cop comes back. And he's like, do you know what an AR-10 is? And I was like, is that why you're here? I was almost dumbfounded-- in my mind, I'm like how in the hell are the cops here because of Facebook? Of all the dumb things I've done in my life. It's a joke. It's a quote from a movie, guy. The movie's on in the other room. I can rewind it, if you like. And then, the one cop was like, well we need to take you downtown for questioning. Homeland security wants to talk to you. I was like, really? <HOST:BEN CALHOUN>  The cops escorted Joe downstairs and he saw that they weren't alone. They'd actually brought back up. There were two extra police cars with officers waiting, in case the guys with the bulletproof vests and the machine gun needed help. They took Joe to a station in Queens and threw him into an interrogation room. <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  Like in Batman, where they leave the Joker. It's the same thing. All blank walls, one mirror, which is probably a two-way, crappy table, crappy chairs, and one guy offers you coffee. And I'm in the interrogating room for a good three, three and a half hours. Just different people questioning me, taking turns with me-- good cop/bad cop, bad cop/bad cop, good cop/good cop. <HOST:BEN CALHOUN>  Joe was sure once he explained the situation, they'd see it was a mistake and everything would shake out. It wasn't until four months later that Joe understood he was in serious trouble. I brought a copy of the court records to our interview. <INTERVIEWER:BEN CALHOUN>  Those are the actual charges against you. <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  A PL240-60 and a PL490-20. The one is make terroristic threats, and the second one is false report of a public building and place. <:> Just to clarify, because it is a little bit confusing, Joe is charged with two felonies, including making a terrorist threat. Joe says, even today he's still not sure how something he posted on Facebook got him arrested. A popular theory with Joe's friends and family is that Facebook rummages through people's pages, flags stuff, and tips off law enforcement. Well, I called Facebook. A spokesperson said flat out, quote, "Facebook did not bring this to the attention of law enforcement. Facebook's policy is that they only turn over user content when law enforcement approaches them, and even then, only in extreme situations, like when a child is abducted." Looking at the court records, the actual answer about how the police got tipped off seems to be much more mundane, and frankly kind of unflattering for Joe. The police report originated in Hawthorne, New Jersey, one town over from where Joe grew up. Which means, it was probably someone Joe knew who did this-- someone who just dislikes him enough to report him for no reason, or someone who actually thought he might do it. He had his first court date for all of this in January-- on the 15th, a Friday. <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  When the DA gets up-- or the assistant DA, whatever you call them-- gets up and reads, in front of the judge, reads the charges and then reads the quote aloud in the court room-- and you could just feel everyone in the court room sink. Like you could hear a pin drop. In retrospect, it sounds bad. And the judge even looked at me with a weird look. And I start giggling. When it gets to the AR-10, I giggle. The ADA was like, the people understand that Mr. Lipari is a comedian and what he said is for the benefit of his friend. And so, right there, I'm like, so why are we even here if you understand it? If you understand I'm just a schmuck that doesn't know when to keep his mouth shut, why are we here? <HOST:BEN CALHOUN>  Since then, Joe's been to court more than half a dozen times over this. And from the sound of it, he hasn't been making things any easier for himself. By his own account, he's given one or two speeches about the Constitution and about how the terrorists have won. Not exactly one to dress for court, Joe recently got scolded for wearing Hawaiian shorts in the courtroom. Joe pointed to the guy next to him and said, that guy's wearing sweatpants. This brings us to what might actually be the most remarkable thing about Joe's whole story, which is this. Most of us learn at some point in our lives that we shouldn't always say whatever impulsive thing we feel like saying. And if we didn't learn that lesson, by getting in trouble in school or making someone cry, the day the cops showed up at our door with machine guns, or the day we had to stand up in court and face felony terrorism charges over a broken cell phone-- those things would be a red light, where we would stop and reevaluate. But has Joe reevaluated, considered whether his life would be easier if he changed? <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  No. I don't think so. I haven't yet. No. Yeah, I don't think I've ever gotten to a point where I'm like, oh man, I'm going to change who I am. No, absolutely not. I can't. I don't know how. Even if I wanted to shut my mouth more often, I don't think I have the facilities to do so. <INTERVIEWER:BEN CALHOUN>  Why not? <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  I don't know. I can't. I don't want to. I don't want to-- because some of the people who love me, love me for that. The people who hate me, hate me for that. So why am I going to worry about the people who hate me and not the people who love me? <HOST:BEN CALHOUN>  In the last few months, the District Attorney's office offered Joe a number of plea deals. Some of them were pretty good. Most recently, a misdemeanor with some community service. Joe rejected all of them. He wanted a jury trial. He was sure no jury would convict him. Finally, Joe went back to court again. And it seems he kind of won. He's got what's called an adjournment and contemplation of dismissal, which essentially means his case is on ice for the next six months. And then, the prosecutors will drop the charges against him. There is, of course, one hitch to all that, one thing that could ruin this and put Joe right back on the hook. During the next six months, Joe's got to stay out of trouble. [MUSIC - "RIGHT TO REMAIN SILENT" BY THE SILVER JEWS] <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Ben Calhoun is one of the producers of our show. Coming up, another guy who's got no problem standing up to the police though in his case it's because he is the police. That's in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  It's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass. Our show today-- Right to Remain Silent. We have two stories of people who very much do not choose to remain silent. We've arrived at act two of our show. Act Two. Is That a Tape Recorder in Your Pocket, or Are You Just Unhappy to See Me? Adrian Schoolcraft is a New York City policeman who decided to secretly record himself and his fellow officers on the job-- all day, every workday, he says for 17 months. Including lots of days when he was ordered to do all kinds of things cops are not supposed to do. It's led to a small scandal, Several people removed from their jobs, and four investigations of the New York Police Department. Though Adrian insists he didn't get into this looking for trouble. <SUBJECT:GRAHAM RAYMAN>  His father is a police officer, and, I would say, he went along with the program for a few years. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  This is the reporter who broke the story in The Village Voice about Adrian and what he recorded those 17 months, a reporter named Graham Rayman. When I asked Graham what Adrian, the person at the center of this scandal, is like, the first thing out of his mouth is-- <SUBJECT:GRAHAM RAYMAN>  I would describe him as an extremely earnest person, almost-- in this cynical age-- almost to the point of almost too earnest. He actually believed that he could get the police commissioner to change certain things about how the police department was being run. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Adrian Schoolcraft was working in Brooklyn-- precinct 81, in Bedford-Stuyvesant, a rough neighborhood, mostly black, that was slowly gentrifying. The precinct is just seven blocks wide and 20 blocks long, roughly, and had 13 murders last year, which is a third of what it used to be. Adrian's kind of an electronics buff, and he bought himself one of those tiny digital recorders, tucked it in his breast pocket, and started recording-- as he walked his beat, when he talked to other cops-- <SUBJECT:POLICE SERGEANT>  All right, attention. Roll call. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  --morning roll calls. <SUBJECT:POLICE SERGEANT>  Enison. <SUBJECT:ENISON>  Here. <SUBJECT:POLICE SERGEANT>  Lewis. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  The only reason the thought entered my head was because-- to protect myself. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  This is Adrian. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Like any other officer would carry a recorder-- was to protect themselves from any false accusations. Usually from civilians who are upset. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  How big was the recorder? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Oh, about the size of a pack of gum. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  The atmosphere at the 81st precinct was set by its commander, Stephen Mauriello. When Mauriello showed up, Adrian Schoolcraft says, things changed. Offices were told to write more tickets, do more stop-and-frisks, arrest more people for low level offenses that they might otherwise let go-- get their numbers up. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  The pressure definitely increased when he arrived and took over as the commanding officer. The analogy I would uses is like having a boot to the back of your heel. It is do this or else. The rent's due. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  The rent's due? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  The rent is due. Pay the rent. Did you pay the rent last month? <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  Pay the rent means did you get your numbers? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Correct. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Now, it's perfectly legal for police to be told-- like anybody in any job-- here's the amount of work that we expect you to do, number of tickets and arrests that are normal for somebody in your job in this neighborhood. But what's not allowed is to penalize police officers who do not make those targets. We don't want police officers under such pressure to deliver numbers that they make stops and arrests and write summons with no valid reason, just to get their goals. Again, reporter Graham Rayman. <SUBJECT:GRAHAM RAYMAN>  In other words, as a police supervisor I can't tell you, you better give me 20 tickets a month or else I'm going to transfer you to the graveyard shift. There can't be a direct relationship between the two. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  That's just against the rules. <SUBJECT:GRAHAM RAYMAN>  It's against the law. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  Oh, it's against the law? <SUBJECT:GRAHAM RAYMAN>  Yeah, there's a state law against that kind of thing. But what was happening in the precinct, and what the tapes show repeatedly, is that they were tying it to disciplinary action. They were threatening the cops. If you don't hit your numbers, you'll get transferred, you'll lose your assignment, we'll change your partner, you'll go on a foot post, you can be given a worse assignment. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  On November 1, 2008, one sergeant declares at a roll call, quote "they are looking at these numbers and people are going to be moved. They can make your job real uncomfortable, and we all know what that means." On December 8, 2008, the sergeant tells the officers that if they don't get their activity up, quote, "there's some people here that may not be here come next month." <SUBJECT:POLICE SERGEANT>  There's some people here that may not be here come next month. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Because officially the NYPD doesn't allow numeric quotas to be tied to job performance, you hear the supervisors in the recording sometimes get into real verbal contortions to get the point across. Like in this excerpt from a roll call the first month that Schoolcraft was recording, June 2008. <SUBJECT:POLICE SERGEANT>  The XO was in the other day. I don't know who was here. He actually laid down a number. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  I'm just going to repeat this because it's hard to hear. "The XO was in the other day," that's a commanding officer, right? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  The Execuitve Officer. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  Or, the Executive Officer. --"was in the other day. He laid down a number." <SUBJECT:POLICE SERGEANT>  All right. So, I'm not going to quote him on that, because I don't want to be quoted stating numbers. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  I'm not going to quote him on that, because I don't want to be quoted stating members. <SUBJECT:POLICE SERGEANT>  All right. He wants at least three seat belts, one cell phone, and 11 others. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  "He wants three seat belts, one cell phone, and 11 others." What does that mean? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  He wants three seat-belt summonses, tickets for people not wearing their seat-belt, one cell phone, someone driving in their car talking on the cell phone, and eleven others, there are dozens of other categories of summonses that you can give people. <SUBJECT:POLICE SERGEANT>  I don't know what the number is, but that's what he wants. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  I don't know what the number is, but that's what he wants. That's a really-- what does that mean? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  He's playing the same game. He knows he's not supposed to state a number, but he wants to get his point across. So it's kind of like, if you remember All the President's Men, it's a non-denial denial. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Adrian Schoolcraft says he isn't exactly sure when, but at some point he had decided that it was important to document the orders that he was given that he thought were out of line. He recorded roll calls where officers were constantly being told to do more stop-and-frisks, even though it's illegal to stop a random person on the street and frisk them without reasonable suspicion. In December 2008, a sergeant tells officers to stop-and-frisk quote, "anybody walking around, no matter what the explanation is." He recorded Stephen Mauriello, the commander the 81st precinct-- and the person Adrian Schoolcraft says really brought the hammer down for higher numbers-- ordering the officers to arrest everyone they see. This happens in a couple of recordings, like this one from Halloween 2008. <SUBJECT:STEPHEN MAURIELLO>  Any roving bands-- you hear me-- roving bands more than two or three people-- <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  He's saying "any roving bands of more than two or three people"-- he's talking about just people going around on Halloween night-- <SUBJECT:STEPHEN MAURIELLO>  I want them stopped-- <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  I want them stopped-- <SUBJECT:STEPHEN MAURIELLO>  --cuffed-- <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  --cuffed-- <SUBJECT:STEPHEN MAURIELLO>  --throw them in here, run some warrants. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  --throw them in here, run some warrants. <SUBJECT:STEPHEN MAURIELLO>  You're on a foot post? [BLEEP] it. Take the first guy you've got and lock them all up. Boom. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  You're on a foot post? F it. Take the first guy you've got, lock them all up. Boom. <SUBJECT:STEPHEN MAURIELLO>  We're going to go back out and process them later on, I've got no problems-- <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  --go back out and then we'll come back in and process them later on." <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Yes. Yeah, what he's saying is, arrest people simply for the purpose of clearing the streets. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Again, Graham Rayman. He says the problem with that is-- <SUBJECT:GRAHAM RAYMAN>  There has to be a violation of the law to make an arrest. He's essentially making the arrest before the crime takes place. <SUBJECT:JOHN ETERNO>  This is an example of something that I would say-- they're going out in the street and just grabbing people-- that's unlawful imprisonment. It's an illegal arrest. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  That's John Eterno, a former New York City cop, who went up the ranks from officer to sergeant, to lieutenant, to captain. He now chairs the Department of Criminal Justice at Molloy College and researches and writes about police practices with Professor Eli Silverman. And he says that some of the things that Adrian Schoolcraft documented on his recordings were no surprise to anybody-- like sergeants hounding officers to get their numbers up. That's been happening in every precinct for a long time, he says. But for commanders to tell cops, just lock people up and figure it out later-- Eterno says the word for that is kidnapping. <SUBJECT:JOHN ETERNO>  That's exactly what it is. They're just pulling people off the street. It's an unlawful imprisonment and they're being kidnapped. If they don't have probable cause, you cannot grab people off the street. It is kidnapping. At this point, from what I'm hearing on this tape, it seems to me that this is probably illegal behavior that's taking place on the part of the police department. <SUBJECT:ANDRE WADE>  We were arrested, they take us to the 81st precinct, put us in lock up for maybe an hour or two. And they processed us and checked for warrants. And once they see no warrants, they let us go, but we were still issued a citation. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Andre Wade has lived in the neighborhood for over twenty years. He's a commercial driver. One day, he and two friends were picking up his brother to go to work together. They were standing on the sidewalk, and a police officer came over, and said they were trespassing. When his brother came down and confirmed, no, no they were there to pick them up, Andre says the officer wouldn't listen. <SUBJECT:ANDRE WADE>  He was just saying stuff like, you know you're not supposed to be standing here. He started getting upset when we were trying to talk him out of giving us the citations. And it's like he just got out of control. He got real erratic and got on the radio. And the next thing you know, we turn around and there's eight, nine police cars. It was to the point to where you would think that somebody was getting arrested for murder, or something like that. And they were just jumping out of their vehicles, and me and my buddies already knew that we were in for a ride. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  The citation that the police gave Wade lists his name, the day that he's supposed to appear in court, but in the spot where it's supposed to specify his crime-- <SUBJECT:ANDRE WADE>  Yes, in that field of the ticket there was nothing-- no violation. The violation was blank. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  One of the producers of our radio show lives in the 81st precinct. And she says that it's one of those neighborhoods where everybody has stories of ridiculous tickets. One of her neighbors was bringing his aunt home from the hospital, and he double parked. Two officers told him to move his car, and when he didn't, he was handcuffed, forced to lie down in the street, and tasered twice-- all in front of a crowd of people, including her, who live on the block and heard him calling for help. One common citation is for having an open container of alcohol. One neighbor says he was walking home from church with his six year old daughter, drinking a small carton of Tropicana orange juice, and he got a ticket for that. Others got tickets for water and Gatorade that was being given away at the park. George Walker has lived on the same block for over 40 years and says older guys like him get a lot of tickets. He thinks maybe they're targeted because they don't give the cops any fuss. He says he's gotten a dozen tickets this past year, nearly all for open container, even though he says he wasn't drinking alcohol. <SUBJECT:GEORGE WALKER>  Every last ticket was dismissed. Every one was not a valid ticket. Because if you see someone drinking alcohol, and you give them a ticket for open container, you have to name what they were drinking. But if they can't name it, they just say cup with alcohol in it. But that's not the name of the alcohol, so it gets dismissed-- because it wasn't alcohol in the first place. But they feel like they can do anything the want to us. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  So in this police station, where everybody's obsessed with how many tickets they're writing-- where cops are told to pull people off corners and throw them in jail and figure out later what to charge them with-- comes Adrian Schoolcraft, who had no interest in making his numbers. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  No, I never tried to make anything happen. I went out there, and you walk you beat. And whatever happened, happened. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  When you would talk to other officers in the precinct, did you have friends who felt the same way? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Yes. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  And would they not get the numbers, or would they get the numbers? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  They would get the numbers. It's easier. Especially if you have a wife, kids. Then they're devoted to their pension and retiring. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  Do you not have a wife and kids? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  No. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  And so you wouldn't go up to people just to give them a ticket? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  No. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  Because? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  It just wasn't right. I found I was getting along with a lot of the local business owners, and I started interacting with the residents, and they would tell me who the problems were. Now, if you start messing with the residents, and you start going into the barber shops and writing summonses that I don't feel police officers have any business writing-- they didn't sweep the floor of hair-- these are the same people that could help you perform your job as a patrolman or a police officer. That was my philosophy, and it did work. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  And so did you get a lot of heat for doing this? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  He [UNINTELLIGIBLE] pressure from supervisors. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  What would they do? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Well I think they considered the foot post punishment, but I always enjoyed the foot post. But there's also hospitalized prisoners, prisoner transports. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  So they would assign you to these lousy posts? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Yeah. To get my mind right, they would try those, but I accepted those as normal duties as a police officer. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  But we still haven't gotten to the most disturbing thing documented by Adrian Schoolcraft and his recordings. Schoolcraft shows, over and over, that sometimes when real crimes would happen, serious crimes, the 81st precinct would reclassify them as lesser crimes-- or simply not put them in the system at all-- to make it look like the precinct was doing a better job driving down crime rates than it really was. Again reporter Graham Rayman. <SUBJECT:GRAHAM RAYMAN>  There's a remarkable conversation that Schoolcraft has with another officer. And the other officer is just telling him three anecdotes of how the precinct commanding supervisor basically dumped three criminal complaints that should've been recorded. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  Yeah, what are the stories that he tells? <SUBJECT:GRAHAM RAYMAN>  One is-- a young woman reports her cell phone was robbed, and the precinct commander basically says-- <SUBJECT:POLICE OFFICER>  --what do you want me to do? What do you want to do with this? <SUBJECT:GRAHAM RAYMAN>  What do you want us to do with this? How are we going to solve this? Are you going to get your phone back? You're not going to get your phone back. <SUBJECT:POLICE OFFICER>  I mean, he's like, "well, what if we can't get it back?" He's like, "are you going to press charges?" <SUBJECT:GRAHAM RAYMAN>  He basically talks her out of filing a complaint, and that should be a robbery that should go in their numbers. And one of the other ones is-- the precinct commander responds to a report of a stolen vehicle. And his first question is, he asks the victim have you done jail time? <SUBJECT:POLICE OFFICER>  He's like, "you ever been arrested before?" He's like, "yeah." And he's like, "what for?" <SUBJECT:GRAHAM RAYMAN>  --which is not really a proper question to ask of a crime victim. But he asks it, and the guy says yes. Yeah, I did eight years in prison when I was younger. And the precinct commander says maybe karma stole your car. <SUBJECT:POLICE OFFICER>  "So you think maybe Karma woke up this morning and took your car?" <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Karma as in the spiritual-- <SUBJECT:POLICE OFFICER>  He was like, "no, I don't think Karma takes cars." He's like, "I think somebody took my car." <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  So he didn't take his report because he's a felon? <SUBJECT:POLICE OFFICER>  Yeah. Basically. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  In the end, this cop tells Adrian, their supervisor, Stephen Mauriello, told him to file the case as an unauthorized driver. <SUBJECT:GRAHAM RAYMAN>  --meaning that the guy loaned his car to somebody else who now has it. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Then when the officer tried to file it that way, because he didn't have a name for the unauthorized driver, he couldn't file it at all. So the robbery went unreported. Rules go into effect in the 81st precinct that make it harder to report serious crimes. Officers are told that if there's a robbery, one of their supervisors has to come out to the scene themselves. And robbery victims are told that if they don't come into the police station, no crime report will be filed at all. After Graham Rayman started publishing these stories about Adrian Schoolcraft, retired cops and some on-duty cops started contacting him with their own anecdotes about crimes being downgraded from serious to much less serious-- the most shocking of these from a high ranking detective name Harold Hernandez. <SUBJECT:GRAHAM RAYMAN>  He's a very distinguished detective. He was working in the 33rd precinct in Washington Heights. And one morning he comes into work and there's a guy who's accused of first degree rape sitting in his interview room. So he sits down and he looks at the guy. And he has a little twinge, and he says, have you ever done this before? And the guy said, yeah. And Hernandez says, how many times? And he says, oh, I don't know, seven or eight. And Hernandez says, where? And he goes, in this neighborhood. And Hernandez is now dumbstruck because there's been no report of a serial rapist-- sexual predator-- working the neighborhood. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  Like, no crimes have shown up. People haven't shown up saying they've been raped or assaulted. <SUBJECT:GRAHAM RAYMAN>  He hasn't been notified. And he would be notified as a senior detective in the unit. It would be a very big deal. And so he says, can you give me the dates and locations? And the guy says, well, I can try, but you're going to have to take me around and I'll show. I'll show you. So he and a fellow detective get in the car and they drive around. And they look, and the suspect-- whose name is Darryl Thomas-- points out the locations. And then Hernandez takes his notebook and he writes down the locations. And then he goes back and he looks through stacks of crime complaints. And he finds them. And he realizes that they've been classified-- they've been downgraded. They've been classified either as criminal trespassing or criminal possession of a weapon-- both relatively minor crimes, given that the actual conduct in the narrative that the victims are describing is either first degree burglary, robbery, or sexual abuse, sexual assault. And he confronts his bosses about it. He confronts the precinct commander. And he confronts his detective squad commander. And everyone just shrugs. Meanwhile everyone's terrified that it's going to come out-- that these women are going to go to the press, and it's going to be a huge embarrassment, a huge scandal for the department. And if it had come out, it would have been a huge scandal for the department. But the department was able to keep it quiet. The District Attorney's office prosecuted Thomas and he went away for 50 years. But here's the interesting part-- they never publicized the case. There was never a press release issued about it. There was never a news article written about the case. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Normally, Graham says, that a case like this-- serial rapist-- they'd try to get some press. But the misclassifications of the crimes would have made the NYPD look bad. No one was ever disciplined for what happened, for downgrading. The precinct commander was promoted twice by Commissioner Kelly. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  The guy who was in charge of that precinct where all this stuff happened? <SUBJECT:GRAHAM RAYMAN>  Where this stuff happened. He's been promoted twice. It just went on, business as usual. Hernandez-- here's a guy who probably would've stayed in the department for 35 years, 30, 35-- as long as he could. But he was so upset about this incident and about other instances of downgrading and of manipulation of the crime stats that he retired. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  And so the NYPD has denied that crimes were downgraded like this. <SUBJECT:GRAHAM RAYMAN>  Yeah. Well, they said that it only happens in a very tiny percentage of cases. And they say that the crimes stats are audited very carefully, And if it was a wider problem it would be spotted. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  The New York Police Department declined our request to come onto the radio or to have the officers who supervised Adrian Schoolcraft, and who are heard on his recordings, to be interviewed about their side of all this. But the pressure on police commanders to get better numbers really goes back to 1994, when New York started tracking crimes with a system called CompStat. CompStat, for the first time, gave commanders timely, accurate data once a week on what crimes are happening, so they could send more cops to deal with it. Chances are you've heard of all this. It became one of the best known successes in modern policing. Serious crime has dropped an astonishing 77% in New York City since CompStat began in 1994. Other cities very quickly started imitating it-- DC, Philly, LA. Baltimore's version of CompStat ended up in a recurring plot line on the TV show The Wire, where street cops are told by the bosses to do anything to pump up their numbers. And the problem with CompStat, says Professor Eli Silverman, who studies the way police forces use numbers, is that the early success of CompStat created the expectation that numbers must get better every single year, no matter what. <SUBJECT:ELI SILVERMAN>  In the beginning it was like an orange. You could squeeze juice from an orange in the beginning much more readily than you can as you extract juice from that orange. And now, it gets harder and harder to drive crime down, because you're compared to not how you were in '94, but how you were last year the same week. And when something's pushed to the excess that it is now, and numbers dominate the system, that's when you have negative consequences. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  As apparently the one person in the 81st precinct who was not obsessed by the numbers, Adrian Schoolcraft, by January 2009, had so displeased his bosses that they gave him a failing job evaluation that covered the entire year of 2008-- which meant one thing, Schoolcraft says. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  They're starting a paper trail, and they'll just keep documenting. They're starting to move you out. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  He hired a lawyer and appealed the evaluation, but started feeling more pressure than ever to go out and do what his bosses wanted. He began to get stomach pains and tightness in his chest. He had trouble sleeping. Again, reporter Graham Rayman. <SUBJECT:GRAHAM RAYMAN>  I think within the precinct, he was probably seen as a little bit eccentric. And also, he wasn't going with the program. And anyone who doesn't go with the program is automatically marked. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Schoolcraft began to feel that he was being retaliated against. He got written up for taking a bathroom break without putting it in his log. Another officer was written up for talking to him. When he went to the duty captain, he was told yes, he was being monitored. <SUBJECT:DUTY CAPTAIN>  Because of your past activity. When people at the same level as you and the same post as you, are doing a lot more than what you do when you're out there, we don't know if you're even out there. That's the problem. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  If there's a bunch of kids on a stoop and you're walking past, the duty captain asks him, and then named some addresses where that might happen, you just go on your merry way, because you don't see anything going on? Schoolcraft tells him he wouldn't just create fake charges. That's a common practice here, he says. Captain asks him what he means, and says in 19 years, he's never seen anybody create charges. Then he asks Schoolcraft the question again. <SUBJECT:DUTY CAPTAIN>  Those kids on the step. Are you going to keep walking? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  No. <SUBJECT:DUTY CAPTAIN>  Are you going to ask them if they live there? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  You usually won't get a response, but-- <SUBJECT:DUTY CAPTAIN>  Right. [BLEEP] you, Schoolcraft. Right? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  That's how it usually happens. <SUBJECT:DUTY CAPTAIN>  Yeah. Are you going to create something there? Because I could tell you that if that [BLEEP] told me to [BLEEP] myself. Yeah, so you go in the handcuffs for telling me that? Yeah. That's it. If you let that go because there's no violation, because he didn't break the law, then I feel bad for you. Because then you have a tough job. And then maybe you should find something else to do, you know? So if you call that creating something? You call that creating something? Or do you call that a matter of keeping the respect, because they'll step all over you when they see you out there. They'll do whatever they want in front of you when you're out there. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Schoolcraft says that around this time, the recordings became about trying to keep his job. Somebody tells him that one of his bosses wants to force him out on psychiatric grounds. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  During this whole time that you were recording, who did you tell? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  My father knew. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  Friends? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  No. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  Fellow officers? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  No. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  Were you tempted to tell anybody ever? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  No. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  What'd your dad say? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  He would ask me if I heard anything that day. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  And when you were getting these orders to get your numbers up and you wouldn't do it, what did your dad say about that? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  He would just reiterate to me how the quota system-- wherever you are, whatever city you're in-- it's unethical and it's illegal. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  So he was on your side. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Yes. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  Finally in April, Schoolcraft takes off a week for stomach and chest pains and is sent to a police department doctor. The doctor finds nothing wrong with him physically. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  And he asked me if I was experiencing stress or anything. I said, well, yes. Matter of fact, this is what's going on. And he said, are you sure you want to tell me this? <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Schoolcraft says he laid it all out for the doctor-- his bad performance evaluation, the numbers he was asked to hit, and also more personal disputes with his bosses about whether his evaluation was falsified, was the precinct doing training it claimed it was doing. And the police department doctor referred Schoolcraft to see a police department psychologist for an evaluation. And when Schoolcraft tells the psychologist the same things that he told the doctor, she asked him to turn in his gun and shield. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Well, she made it sound like it was normal. She said, it's not unusual for us to take an officer's gun and shield if he or she is having chest pains. Schoolcraft moves to a job answering phones at the precinct, where he continues to gather evidence. And in October, he finally talks to the people in the police department who investigate unethical practices-- the Internal Affairs Bureau, IAB-- and it doesn't go well. Schoolcraft says that not only did they seem very skeptical, he claims that Internal Affairs left phone messages for him at the precinct. He says this alerted his bosses to the fact that he was talking to Internal Affairs. Internal Affairs does start an investigation, though. And soon, Schoolcraft gets a phone call from the division of the police department whose main purpose is to make sure that crime reporting and statistics using CompStat are accurate. It's called the Quality Assurance Division. And at last, Schoolcraft says, somebody seems to take his accusations seriously. Investigators hear him out, ask lots of questions, and promise to look into it. <SUBJECT:QAD REPRESENTATIVE>  I appreciate you coming in, and bringing [INAUDIBLE] to our attention. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  He doesn't tell them that he has recordings. In fact, as you can hear, he secretly records this three hour meeting with them. But he does give them documentation-- real evidence to back up his charges. And what happens next to Adrian Schoolcraft is very, very strange. Just a few weeks after his meetings with Internal Affairs and QAD, he shows up to work. It's the end of October. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  As soon as I sit down, a lieutenant approaches me and asks for my activity log. Well, this activity log is where I keep a lot of my notes regarding what people are saying and the times they're saying it. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  And all the things, basically, you're trying to report that you think are going wrong in the precinct. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Correct. And it wasn't until I got it back that I realized the cat was out of the bag. He had bent the corners on some of the pages, and I saw what piqued his interest. And I became very worried, how he was looming around me-- I felt threatened by it. And again, all these officers are armed. But I left with permission. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  Because you though, what was going to happen? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Well, I wasn't sure. I just felt his behavior worried me. And-- <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  But you thought he might provoke you into something, and then he would shoot you, or something? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  That was one of the fears. I'm not just an officer inside. Now I'm an officer that has this psych issue. No one's supposed to know, but everyone knows that when you have your gun and shield taken, you've been psyched. And you have that brand on you. So what's going to happen? Are they going to say I lunged at him? Or are they-- any kind of scenario could play out. And I just didn't feel comfortable, so I left. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  How he left is in dispute. Schoolcraft says that he told a sergeant that he was feeling sick and went home an hour early. The police say the sergeant never said yes to this request. In any case, Schoolcraft went home and went to bed. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  A few hours later, I received a phone call from my father, and he told me he received a phone call from my XO. He says, look outside your window. And I looked out my window and there were multiple police vehicles, and there seemed to be quite a crowd. <SUBJECT:POLICE OFFICER>  [KNOCKING] [INAUDIBLE] <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Adrian has no idea what they want, but he knows the situation is bad, so he starts recording. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  31 October, 2009. [KNOCKING] <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  The officers open Adrian's door with a key they get from his landlord. <SUBJECT:POLICE OFFICER>  Adrian! Police department, buddy. Let me see your hands. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  They've just entered my home. And they were in their helmets, and gear, and tasers. They had the special weapon-- basically SWAT. <SUBJECT:POLICE OFFICER>  You all right? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Yeah, I think so. <SUBJECT:POLICE OFFICER>  Everybody's worried about you. They haven't heard from you. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Who's worried about me? <SUBJECT:MICHAEL MARINO>  Adrian, didn't you hear us knocking on this door for a couple of hours? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  No. Why would I expect anyone to knock on my door? <SUBJECT:MICHAEL MARINO>  I don't know, Adrian. But if you hear somebody knocking, normally you get up and answer it. They were kicking on that door loud and yelling. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  I wasn't feeling well. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL MARINO>  All right. Sit down. Sit down. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  That voice you just heard in Adrian's bedroom is a man of much higher rank than anybody in any of the recordings to this point. He's the number two commander for the NYPD for all of Brooklyn North, Michael Marino. Stephen Mauriello, the head of the 81st precinct, the commander that Adrian contends had been putting pressure on all the officers to deliver better numbers, is also there in the bedroom. He talks next. <SUBJECT:STEPHEN MAURIELLO>  You've got everybody worried. They're worried about your safety. All right? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Worried about what? <SUBJECT:STEPHEN MAURIELLO>  What do you mean, worried about what? They tried calling you. You got-- everybody's been calling you. You just walked out of the precinct, you know? That's what we're worried about. Your safety, your well-being. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  All right. I'm fine. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  Why does he keep saying that he's worried about your safety? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  That's his excuse to come into my home. <SUBJECT:STEPHEN MAURIELLO>  Get your stuff on. We're going back to the precinct. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  I'm not going back to the precinct. <SUBJECT:STEPHEN MAURIELLO>  Adrian, we're going to go back to the precinct. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  For? <SUBJECT:STEPHEN MAURIELLO>  Because we're going to do it the right way. You can't just walk out of command-- <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  What's going to be done if I go to the 8-1? <SUBJECT:STEPHEN MAURIELLO>  What's going to be done. We're going to investigate why you left. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  I'm telling you why I left. I was feeling sick. <SUBJECT:STEPHEN MAURIELLO>  Adrian, that's not the reason why you leave. All right, you know that. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Adrian knows the rules and he asks if he's under arrest. He's not under arrest. But the number two commander for Brooklyn North, Michael Marino, tells him he's giving him an order. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL MARINO>  Listen to me. I'm a chief in the New York City Police Department, and you're a police officer. So this is what's going to happen, my friend. You've disobeyed an order, and the way you're acting is not right, at the very least. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Chief, if you-- <SUBJECT:MICHAEL MARINO>  Stop right there. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  --open up your house-- <SUBJECT:MICHAEL MARINO>  Stop. Stop right there, son. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  --how would you behave? <SUBJECT:MICHAEL MARINO>  Son, I'm doing the talking right now, not you. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  In my apartment. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL MARINO>  In your apartment. You are going-- <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Is this Russia? <SUBJECT:MICHAEL MARINO>  You are going to be suspended. All right? That's what's going to happen. You're suspended son. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  That's when I found out what they-- that's what they were so desperate to accomplish. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  How many people are in your bedroom at this point? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  In the bedroom, at all times, there's at least four. And then there's a living room-- at least a dozen. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  If this seems like an extreme response to you, reporter Graham Rayman confirms, it is. <SUBJECT:GRAHAM RAYMAN>  Yeah, it's very extreme for going home from work early-- an hour early. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  An officer asks Adrian if he wants medical aid-- an EMT to come check him out. Adrian's blood pressure turns out to be sky high. They offer to take him to a hospital, but not his local hospital-- to one that he's never heard of. And he doesn't get what they're up to, and he refuses medical attention. Under the law, they should leave him alone. But for some reason, they will not take no for an answer. <SUBJECT:STEPHEN MAURIELLO>  Adrian, lie down in the bus and we'll go. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  I can lie down in my own bed. I haven't done anything wrong. <SUBJECT:STEPHEN MAURIELLO>  Yeah, you have. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  OK, file it. Write it up. <SUBJECT:STEPHEN MAURIELLO>  Now, it's a matter of your health. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL MARINO>  Adrian, listen to me. All right, son? <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Again, this is Deputy Chief Marino, from Brooklyn North. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL MARINO>  Right now, EMS is saying that you're acting irrational-- this is them, not us-- and that if you go to the hospital, listen to me-- <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Yeah, and you're whispering in their ear-- <SUBJECT:MICHAEL MARINO>  Adrian, they are not-- <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Chief, do what you've got to do. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL MARINO>  --listen to me. Now you have a choice. You get up like a man and put your shoes on and walk into that bus-- <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Like a man. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL MARINO>  --like a man. Or son, they're going to treat you as an EDP and that means handcuffs. And I do not want to see that happen to a cop. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  EDP is? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Emotionally Disturbed Person. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL MARINO>  Son, you've caused this. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  I didn't cause anything. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL MARINO>  You have caused this. Now you have a choice. They're saying you have to go to the hospital. That's EMS. These are trained medical professionals. And if you don't go, then you're not acting rationally. And they say now they're afraid you're emotionally disturbed. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  It was all very surreal. At that point right there, he's very agitated. His face is red, and I knew then that anything could happen. I had no witnesses. No one was living with me. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL MARINO>  So you have a choice. What is it going to be? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  I'm laying right here until I feel better. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL MARINO>  OK, son. He's EDP. He's EDP. <SUBJECT:POLICE OFFICER>  Put your hands behind your back. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Why am I putting my hands behind my back? <SUBJECT:MICHAEL MARINO>  Because you have to go to the hosptial. All right, just take him. I can't [BLEEP] understand him anymore. <SUBJECT:POLICE OFFICER>  Adrian, come here. Put your hands behind your back. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  [GRUNTS] <SUBJECT:POLICE OFFICER>  Get your hands behind your back. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  [GRUNTS] <SUBJECT:POLICE OFFICER>  Get one hand. Go ahead. Get one hand. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  They pulled me off the bed. They slammed me to the floor. The way they were stomping on my back, they were pressing on my chest in a way that it was affecting my circulation. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL MARINO>  Adrian stop it. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  My chest. Oh, my chest. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  During the struggle, as they cuff Adrian, the little recorder falls out of his pocket. Deputy Chief Marino spots it. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL MARINO>  Absolutely amazing, Adrian. You put your fellow police officers through this. Absolutely amazing. Yeah, it's a recorder. Recording devices, and everything else-- so he's playing a game here. Cute. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  So if he found that recorder, how are we hearing this tape? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  No, he found the recorder that was in my pocket. There was another recorder. The one that was running was just a recorder on the shelf. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  In plain sight? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  I had some books around it. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Now that Deputy Chief Marino has labeled Schoolcraft EDP, the police take Schoolcraft and commit him to a psychiatric ward, saying he was a danger to himself. Schoolcraft, who had spent months documenting his bosses telling cops to lock people up on contrived pretenses, now found himself locked up on contrived pretenses. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  They told the hospital staff that I left work early, I yelled at my supervisor-- and I swore at my supervisors, cursed at them-- that I ran from them, and I barricaded myself in my home. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  But the tapes showed that isn't true. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Correct, no. None of that happened. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Schoolcraft's father, the last person Schoolcraft talked to, is unable to find him for days. The last he heard, his son was in an apartment surrounded by police, the next, he just vanished. His father says he called Internal Affairs, the FBI, the press. Finally he located him by calling around the hospitals all over Queens. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  That's the only way I got out, because he confronted the hospital administration and said, here's my son's health care proxy, I'm his father. Why have you imprisoned my son here? And they had no answer, and they had to release me. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  Why do you think they went so far with you? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  It seemed like an act of desperation. Panic. <SUBJECT:GRAHAM RAYMAN>  You can look at it in a couple of different ways. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Again, reporter Graham Rayman. <SUBJECT:GRAHAM RAYMAN>  One is that they put him in the psych ward because he tried to report corruption and misconduct. They literally tried to destroy his reputation. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  Like, he's literally crazy. That's the message. <SUBJECT:GRAHAM RAYMAN>  Yeah, right. That they were trying to portray him as crazy. You could also look at it-- that the chief lost his temper that night. Just got angry and gave an order that turns out to be a totally inappropriate order. I could see that being the case also. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  At the time that he led the raid on Schoolcraft's apartment, Deputy Chief Michael Marino was already under a microscope. It was just a month after he had been put on trial inside the department after a sting named him as one of 27 cops who illegally bought human growth hormone, or steroids. Marino claimed that he used the human growth hormone for a medical condition. And back in 2006, an arbitrator found that Marino was in violation of New York labor laws for a very similar situation to the one that Schoolcraft was documenting. The arbitrator ruled that Marino had set up an illegal quota for police officers of four parking tickets, three moving violations, three quality of life summons, and two stop-and-frisk per month and then penalized the officers when they didn't make the quota. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  I didn't figure I would lose my job. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Adrian Schoolcraft says that in the end, none of this worked out the way he thought it would during all those months of recording. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  I figured someone would approach the supervisor and say, listen you got caught. Knock it off. And everything's in house, still. Just knock it off. This is getting out of control. I never saw myself as an adversary. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  Because you assumed that the police commissioner-- the people at the very top of the police force-- that they would be on your side. <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  Correct. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  But now do you believe that, in fact, they would be on your side? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  I don't believe they were, or ever intended to be. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  That's the question, of course. And there's really no way to know how typical the 81st precinct is. Reporter Graham Rayman has heard from retired cops who say the same things happened where they worked. And he's found a policeman who was secretly recording in the Bronx at the same time as Schoolcraft finding the same things. The guys who study the way CompStat is used by the police, John Eterno and Eli Silverman, say manipulating stats to get better numbers seems to happen in a lot of places where CompStat is used. <SUBJECT:ELI SILVERMAN>  There's evidence of the same kind of distortion-- we've done research, where people have written in our blog-- from other countries, UK, Australia, as well. Commanders attesting to the same phenomenon. This is not unique to New York. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Having failed to reach any results working inside the department, Schoolcraft finally went to the press. And Graham's five-part series in The Village Voice has been, Adrian says, like a meteor hitting the 81st precinct. The police commissioner transferred Commander Stephen Mauriello, and some of the other senior-level supervisors, out of the precinct. Though he only did that after several weeks of pressure from politicians and clergy. There's now one police investigation into Schoolcraft's allegations, there's another investigation of Deputy Chief Marino's order to put Schoolcraft into a psych ward, another into the charge that serious crimes were downgraded to lesser ones, and a fourth that is just about the misclassification of crimes in Detective Hernandez's sexual assault case. Schoolcraft's recordings will be used in two class action lawsuits, one about stop-and-frisks, one about quotas. Schoolcraft himself is suing the department for $50 million. Two officers have come forward to back up his charges. A website, schoolcraftjustice.com has been set up looking for more. Schoolcraft himself is suspended without pay, living with his dad, 350 miles away, in upstate New York-- where, he says, a dozen times city police have shown up and pounded on his door, yelling, "NYPD, we know you're in there. Open up." [KNOCKING] Of course, he recorded it. <SUBJECT:POLICE OFFICER>  Adrian, we know you're in there. Just open the door please, so we can get back to New York. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  Schoolcraft assumes that he'll never again work as a police officer anywhere. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  Is it weird not to be a policeman anymore? <SUBJECT:ADRIAN SCHOOLCRAFT>  It feels odd. But I still feel like I am a policeman. I'm going forward with this investigation. I just feel like this is my case. This is the one. And I'll go all the way with it. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  And finally, with the 81st precinct under new supervision, the numbers on serious crime have risen by 10-15%. Are the crimes going up, or that's closer to the true amount of crime that was already there, only now being recorded? [MUSIC - "OFFICER" BY THE PHARCYDE] Well, our program today was produced by me and Sarah Koenig, with Alex Blumberg, Ben Calhoun, Jane Feeltes, Jonathan Menjivar, Lisa Pollak, Robin Semien, and Alissa Shipp and Nancy Updike. Our senior producer is Julie Snyder. Seth Lind is our production manager. Emily Condon's our office manager. Music help from Jessica Hopper. Production help from Shawn Wen. [ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS] This American Life is distributed by Public Radio International. WBEZ management oversight of our program by our boss, Mr. Torey Malatia, who's got no problem with the end of Don't Ask, Don't Tell. Seriously. <SUBJECT:JOE LIPARI>  No, I have a gay cousin. I am the least homophobic person in the world. <HOST:IRA GLASS>  I'm Ira Glass. Back next week with more stories of This American Life. <:>  PRI, Public Radio International. <EPISODE NUMBER:411> <EPISODE NAME:First Contact> <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> So is that Marc. <SUBJECT:MARC HOLMES> Yes, that's Marc speaking for Scott. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> So Scott, you were born without hearing, right? <SUBJECT:MARC HOLMES> That's correct. Even though my parents didn't know that until I was 18 months old. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> This is a very strange interview because you can't hear and because I have a terrible cold, I can't speak. <SUBJECT:MARC HOLMES> Marc gets the burden here. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Yeah. <SUBJECT:MARC HOLMES> To be honest, I didn't know what to expect. The best analogy I can think of is maybe, I was hoping that it would be like that speech was like telepathy, instant thought transfer. <HOST:IRA GLASS> So he had the surgery and then he went to the audiologist to configure the device and what they do is that they hook up the implant to a machine. <SUBJECT:MARC HOLMES> To send different frequencies, pulses, to try and stimulate the different parts in my cochlea. Trying to figure out which one worked. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And so the first sounds that you hear are those pulses? <SUBJECT:MARC HOLMES> Yes. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And what do they sound like? <SUBJECT:MARC HOLMES> The first time I heard something, I can remember very vividly because it wasn't really-- it didn't feel like hearing. It felt more like a vibration in my whole body. I was sitting there and nothing was happening except for like a little thing that was tingling throughout my body. But eventually after a while, the vibrations localized to my ears. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Oh, I see. The first vibrations, you couldn't even tell that they were coming in through your ears. <SUBJECT:MARC HOLMES> Right. I didn't really know that it was sound itself at first. And eventually I came to realize, wait a minute, this must be it. The audiologist just sent me on my way with the cochlear implant on. <HOST:IRA GLASS> We can only make an educated guess what this really sounds like. As best as we understand it from people who could once hear and then later in life got the implants, there's a mechanical edge to the sound that you hear with these devices. Musical notes have to be nearly half an octave apart before you can tell the difference between the notes. Voices, people say that they sound like a robot Daffy Duck. But for Scott, his brain had never developed the neural pathways to process audio. There were two big problems that went beyond all of that. <SUBJECT:MARC HOLMES> One was that I couldn't understand any of the sounds. It was just all noise that did not have any ability to distinguish. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Am I understanding you right, if someone was looking right at you and you were seeing their mouth moving, talking directly to you, you actually couldn't tell which of the sounds was the sound of their voice coming out of their mouth? <SUBJECT:MARC HOLMES> It would depend on the environment. Because if it was an environment where there was other noises, then I wouldn't really be able to pick out the person's voice from that background. <HOST:IRA GLASS> If a dog barked or a horn honked, he couldn't tell what the sounds were or what caused them. A doctor who does these implants told me about a very young patient of his, a child who got the implant and then would just flush the toilet over and over, kind of amazed to connect the sound that it made with the action of the thing that they were seeing. I was interested in Scott because although I know lots of deaf people say they have no need to learn to hear and they're fine as they are and they frown on this procedure, Scott is somebody who wanted this to work. He imagined what is going to be like. And our show today, our radio show today is all stories where people are trying to make contact for the first time with something that they have never encountered or experienced. And Scott's situation seemed like a particularly harsh example of that. The reality was so far from what he had expected. His second big problem with implants was he didn't have the ability to ignore any sounds. <SUBJECT:MARC HOLMES> Well if you're sitting in your office and you listen carefully, you might hear things like the computer fan running, or your own movements, or for many different things. And most people have trained themselves to ignore those noises. I had none of that ability. So everything ended up overwhelming me without me being able to stop it or ignore it. <HOST:IRA GLASS> For somebody like Scott getting the implant as his age, his brain can never catch up and learn to process sound. After five years with the implant, it was still hard for him to focus if an air conditioner was on in the room. And as for recognizing words, if he was in a quiet room and his speech therapist would say a word to him, he could actually pick out the word from a list of words that were sitting in front of him, and that's about as good as it got. So at the end of high school, he stopped using the implant. He doesn't miss it. The only time he really liked it he says was that very first day when he had his first contact with sound. <SUBJECT:MARC HOLMES> I think the first time I heard that was cool, things like, oh I can clink the cookie jar, but it got old very fast. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Well today on our show, First Contact, we have three stories of people in that frightening, thrilling, first moment of encounter, that leap into the unknown. Mike Birbiglia talks about an achievement that was literally years in the making for him. We have somebody also chatting his way into the lives of people very far away in the middle of a war, we have scientists pondering exactly what we should say the very first time we find extraterrestrials to talk to, and what boneheaded things people want to say to them. From WBEZ Chicago it's This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I'm Ira Glass, still with a little cold this week, but feeling just fine. Stay with us. <HOST:IRA GLASS> OK, I don't know why this came to mind, out the blue actually. Three weeks ago I was walking down the street, it was nighttime, I was with the dog, and I thought of this. And literally loud I said out loud, "Oh god. Oh God, no, no, no." Here's what I remembered. In junior high school, I was really, really young. I tried to feel up a girl in front of her family. Somehow I thought I could get away with this. We were watching a Jerry Lewis movie on TV in their rec room. I remember that. I had never touched a girl before, so I don't know why I thought this was going to happen. Anyway, so when this came back to me, it was really just as horrifying. I mean, even as I talk about it now. It's just as horrifying as it should have been the day it happened. And I bring this all up to say, we are all so clueless as we learn about making out and sex and all that stuff. And we begin our show today with a story from Mike Birbiglia. Nothing explicit happens here at all, but it still might not be right for every young listener. <HOST:MIKE BIRBIGLIA> In seventh grade people started making out with each other, and I remember this very well because I remember thinking people we know are making out with other people we know! But how? It just seemed like this alien ritual, where these two aliens kind of attach orifices all of a sudden. And I was like, I am not doing that. And collectively all the girls in my class were like, that is fine. You are not on the list. You are not exactly a first round draft pick for our new activity. It just seemed gross to me, making out. It's like watching a dog eat spaghetti. So I wasn't going to make out with anyone and I was fine with that. But then it started to sort of create factions in the seventh grade class, sort of the make out club and the non-make out club. I mean these weren't formal organizations, that would be very sad. A meeting of the non-make out club. I call this meeting to order. First order of business, Nintendo. The non-make out club, we had a hard time because we were losing good people by the day. I feared that soon I would be the lone member of the non-make out club. So I was, I need to join the make out club. But I didn't have any real prospects. I mean I had this one girl who I had a huge crush on who sat in front of me in class named Lisa Bizetti. And she had to talk to me on the phone every night about homework thanks t alphabetical order. So one time I said something that made her laugh and I was like, oh, this is great. Like I gotta do that more. And then one time she was actually laughing so hard and she said, Mike, you gotta stop. I'm going to pee myself. I was like, wow. It was the closest I'd ever come to a vagina. So I spent the next 15 years trying to get Lisa  Bizetti to pee. And that's how I ended up here. So one time I built up the courage to ask Lisa to go to a carnival with me. And she said, yes. And I was so excited about this. I had this idea that we would go to the carnival and I would win her a giant stuffed bear. And we would go on rides, and then we'd make out. Like really simple, just like the romantic comedy montages. And I took her on a ride called the Scrambler. And I don't know if you have the Scrambler where you live. I imagine you do. It travels on a truck. The premise is that you sit on the two-person pod with the person you're in love with, and then that pod goes in a circle. Which is part of an even larger circle, which is part of an even grander circle. As I understand it, it was originally designed as a medical device for people who have sharp objects stuck in their throat to help them purge the objects. It was called a Puke Your Facerator. And it was very successful. And then it was co-opted by the carnival workers of America-- CWoA. [LAUGHTER] And they said, we like it, but we feel like the name is something of a turn off. And then one guy goes, well, what about the Scrambler? And they're like, nailed it. But who is going to be in charge of this dangerous piece of equipment? And then one guy goes, well, I have a nephew who's 16-years-old and smokes pot 24 hours a day. I feel like he might be available. And they're like, he sounds amazing. We don't even need to interview him. He sounds completely qualified. So we sit down on the Scrambler and Lisa's snuggling up next to me. And I was thinking, like, this is it. This is where it's at all going to happen. But I think that when you're 12-years-old, you just don't understand certain things about the digestive system. You don't know that you shouldn't eat popcorn and peanuts and funnel cake and cotton candy and then go on a machine that scrambles your body. Cotton candy being the most insane of these items. It's basically like saying, we're going to take sugar, which everyone knows is bad. But then we'll dress it up like insulation. And I'm like, I'm not sure what he selling point is there. Is it the sugar or the insulation? So I know from the moment they put the bar seat belt down that I am going to throw up for sure. The bar seat belt is not a very reassuring piece of safety equipment. That has never saved anyone's life. I mean, come one. I mean I think the only thing it's ever done right is just held someone's esophagus down to the pavement in a Scrambler accident, making sure that they are dead, and that they can not talk about the Scrambler accident I know when they put the bar seatbelt down I'm going to throw up for sure. And I even say to the Scrambler operator, I'm like, hey, actually-- and then he was gone. Apparently he doesn't enjoy the second halves of sentences. And so then I'm scrambling. And I'm scrambling and I'm thinking, I need to come up with a plan of some kind. And my first plan was that I wouldn't look at Lisa and I wouldn't look at any other people. So I'm like, don't look at Lisa. Don't look at any other people. Don't look at Lisa. Don't look at any other people. I need a new plan. And the new plan was that I needed to tell the Scrambler operator that he needed to stop the ride. But the mathematics of the Scrambler are such that the window of opportunity in which one can communicate with the Scrambler operator is a very limited window. So I'm like, I got to the guy to stop the ride. I got to tell the guy to stop the ride. I got to tell the guy to stop the ride. Please stop the ride. And then I'm back. 20 yards away, 30 yards away, 40 hours away, 20 yards away. I got to say it louder. Please stop the ride!. And I'm back. 20 yards away, 30 yards away, 40 yards away. I'm like, I'm not sure he's paying attention. I think he might be smoking pot right now. And the third time I said, please stop the-- and then I started throwing up. And it was not unlike an oscillating lawn sprinkler. You know, just [SPRINKLER NOISES]. Just popcorn and peanuts and insulation. Really insulating the pavement with my homemade carnival salsa. And I did not look at Lisa, but I'm pretty sure she was staring at me. And we did not make out. Making out was no longer on the agenda that evening. And so I did not lose my mouth virginity. But the next year, it actually got worse. Because I went to an all boys catholic school and I actually couldn't admit to my peers that I hadn't had my first kiss because I knew they would make fun of me mercilessly. And so when they would ask, I would just be like, yeah. And I feared that at some point they would ask follow up questions. They'd be like, oh yeah, what's it like? And I'd be like, it's like licking an ice cream cone. And they'd be like, no it's not. It's like sucking on a rocket pop. And I'd be like, oh, wrong frozen dessert analogy. Because these guys that I went to school with, I mean they were just make out machines. I mean I sat behind this one guy in class named Sam Richiarti and he was like a make out ninja. Like every Monday morning I'd be like, what'd you do over the weekend? And he would just be like, made out with chicks. And I would be like, where? And he would be like, the mall, dude. The mall. As though that made sense. And I was just trying to imagine this, like the mall. What does that mean? He goes to the arcade and kind of like throws quarters around to the ladies. And then, invites one over to go to Orange Julius. And then says, hey, want to make out at the phone booth or whatever? Like I don't even know how that happens. So I thought my only chance to lose my mouth virginity was going to be at the annual St. John's dance. They had what they called cattle call dances where they invite all the girls from all over the state to the St. John's gymnasium for the sole purpose of making out. I mean this was a gymnasium that was chock full of sweat and Binaca and Led Zeppelin and Drakkar Noir and I was flanked at the dance by my friend Sam. And we were introduced by our friend, Tom, to this girl, these two girls. And Sam said one of those phrases that we've all heard, but is very uncomfortable. He said, you get that one. Which I know is uncomfortable to talk about, but I'm OK talking about it because I know I've been on the negative end of that conversation where some girls says of me like, you get that one. And then the other girl goes, ew. Or even worse, you owe me. Which really hurts. You know, thinking about someone incurring debt based on my appearance. I don't want to hurt someone's credit score. So he says, you get that one. And then I'm fast-dancing with this girl, Sandra. I'm not great at fast-dancing. She's losing interest in me by the second. And I'm saved by a slow song. It was "Stairway to Heaven." It's an eight-minute make out anthem. And we're slow dancing and you can't mess up slow dancing because it's just kind of a slow motion hug. The only way you could mess it up is if you started fast dancing in the middle of it. And she was like, what are you doing? And I'm like, I don't pick up on social cues. So we're slow dancing and all I'm focused on is I just don't want to fidget too much. Because I'm kind of a fidgety person. I fear if I fidget too much I could initiate the tilt too early. That's one of the main ingredients of making out, the tilt. And then the area in between the two mouths, which is a very mysterious area. I mean no one has video footage of that area. It's like the giant squid of making out. No one has seen it alive, they've just seen it washed up on shore. Which is more specific to the squid side of the analogy. You know what I mean? And so, with about three minutes left in "Stairway to Heaven" I make the slightest tilt and then Sandra comes in strong. And then it was an all out mouth war. And she had artillery because she had braces. It was like a dog eating spaghetti and the fork. And while this oral atrocity is taking place, all I can think is, I'm not alone anymore. I'm not in the non-make out club. And it was this real seminal moment for me. But I couldn't share it with anyone because I walked off the dance floor and I had to play it off like this was something I had done before. My friend Sam was like, how'd it go? And I was just like, it was great, just like always. So a few days later I call Sandra and I'm thinking, maybe we could have a relationship of some kind. And she doesn't call me back. And so I go to school one day and I say to my friend Tom who had introduced us, I go, hey, what's going on with Sandra? And he has this kind of knowing grin on his face. I'm like, what? He's like, nothing. I was like, what? And he's like, nothing. And I was like, what? And he was like, oh, I talked to Sandra and she said that you're the worst kisser she's ever kissed. I know. It was devastating. Because first of all, because it was probably true. But more importantly, because I couldn't explain to my friends why it was true. I couldn't do like, well that makes sense because I've never kissed anyone before. I had no idea what I'm doing. So instead, I had to just be like, yeah, that sounds about right. I'm a terrible kisser. That's kind of my thing. But I was lucky because my friend Sam was right there with me and he's goes, me too, dude. Me too. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Mike Birbiglia, performing a story from his new one-man show and his new book that is coming out this fall. The book is Sleepwalk with Me and Other Painfully True Stories. Coming up, mistakes we've made with space aliens. Already, we don't even know them and we've made mistakes. That's in a minute. From WBEZ Chicago and Public Radio International, when our program continues. <HOST:IRA GLASS> This American Life, I'm Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course, we choose a theme, bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show, First Contact, stories about people reaching outside what they know, outside their comfort zone, making contact with something they have only heard about. We've arrived at act 2 of our show. Act two: brothers from another planet. What's amazing about this next story is that this couple befriends these strangers. Mostly the guy, but also the woman. And really, they get to know them and what their lives are really like at this level that is so intimate. It takes them into this world that most of us really don't feel like we have any access to at all. Here's Sara Blaisdell, who tells the story. <HOST:SARA BLAISDELL> Here's what I know about Yemal from the pictures. When it's cold, which isn't often, he wears grey and red stripe sweaters. He can do a cartwheel. He likes to hold babies, stand next to camels, and sit on saggy couches conversing with handsome young men. He himself, is handsome. His big brown eyes, thick dark hair, a mischeivous-looking moustache, a three-days beard, and a tiny gap between his front teeth. He's the kind of guy who wholeheartedly smiles in photos, rather than trying to look like a bad-ass. Yemal lives near Sadr City, a poor section in Northeast Baghdad. He's the oldest of three Iraqi brothers and he's aged from 17 to 23 since the war started in 2003. The same year he and my husband, Sam Taylor, started their Sunday phone ritual. When Yemal looks back at what's happened during this time he says, there haven't been any positive things because of the war. But there have been many positive things happening during the war. You know, I got married. I got my children. I met Sam. On a recent Saturday night, Sam was up late playing Call of Duty on Xbox Live with friends, and then watching sci-fi films and eating chicken wings with me. But he knows he will piss off at least three Iraqis if he's not up by 7:50 Sunday morning. So he sets the alarm. Then clicks it off when it beeps just five hours later. Gets his headset ready, starts the coffee. Then the phone rings, like it has almost every week since 2003. Sam's been talking to the boys as we call them, Yemal, Sadeem and Mahmood for at least four hours every Sunday for almost seven years. But on this Sunday, March 28, 2010, when Sam answers the phone, Yemal is unusually quite, not really engaged. This is about the time Yemal's wife, Temara , is supposed to be having her baby. So Sam worries something's gone wrong. I'm not sure how to say this, Yemal says, then he gets quite again. Are you there, Sam asks? I'm trying to think of what to say. I'm trying to get the strength to say this. This whole time Sam's thinking, the new baby has died, Temara has died, or both. He thinks for sure that's what it is and he doesn't know how he's going to respond. And then Yemal says, you lied. What do you mean? You said that if enough people voted, al-Maliki would be gone and Allawi would win. A few hours later, Sam and I are making a rare Sunday lunch together because the boys hung up earlier than usual. Maybe because of their sour moods. Did you tell them Allawi would win?, I ask. Kind of, Sam says. Well, not exactly. Sam had told them that if people didn't like al-Maliki and enough people voted, they might get him out. He could be gone. He hadn't meant for it to be a stump speech about the power of democracy. He hadn't meant it as a property either. And now it's all over the news, Nouri al-Maliki saying something to the effect of as Yemal puts it, I am in power. I will always be in power. After Yemal accused Sam of being a liar, they talked through it. They always managed to talk through it after one or the other unwittingly offends, or after they've delved too deep into dark topics. They usually warm up again by talking about light stuff or joking about stereotypes of East and West. Sam will be talking about Jews, for example, and Yemal will say, Jews? But he'll say it like Jews. And Sam will say, that's so cliche. The Middle Easterner's got to hate the Jews. Or Yemal jokes about how sinful Sam is. He'll give him a hard time because he had sex before marriage, or he'll ask, were you drinking last night? The boys are also really interested in finding videos on YouTube of world leaders crying, world leaders doing something embarrassing. Especially Arab leaders, but others too. They tell Sam, oh, there's this new Ahmadinejad rap you have to hear. It's so funny. The boys usually lead the conversation and Sam usually follows. They'll talk about political news, family news, works news. Since Yemal was conscripted into the army, cleaning up after suicide bombings is a regular part of his life. When they talked about the violent, Sam used to say stuff like, maybe this'll be over soon, or things are going to get better. But he stopped saying that. Now mostly he'll just listen and won't try to explain it away. A lot of times they're looking for answers to questions like, how would you feel if this was happening to you? Let's say your wife got killed. So Sam will say I don't know how I would feel. Because he doesn't. Sam first met Yemal in 2003. At the time, Sam was a philosophy undergrad living in Pleasant Grove Utah. He was kind of bored with the politics website he was arguing on, so he started playing around with this chat program and met an Israeli there. Acrosstheuniverse was his user name. On Sam's campus there are wide screen TVs all over the food court blasting the war news. One day Sam distinctly remembers there was coverage of the explosions, bombs hitting Iraq. It was like they were watching a football game Sam says. It seemed wrong to him. So he asked his Israeli chat buddy, Acrosstheuniverse, what he thought about the war. What did he think was going to come of it. Acrosstheuniverse replied, I just met an Iraqi. Want to meet him? Sure, Sam said. So that's when he got a message from Yemal, a real live Iraqi. So he started asking him about the war, about what was going on outside his window. Yemal wrote back about the pro-democracy propaganda flyers written in English. They were floating down onto the streets. Within a couple of weeks, they were writing each other about more personal stuff. Half a year went by and Yemal bought a calling card and asked Sam for his phone number. Then early one morning the phone rang and all of a sudden Sam was speaking to someone whose voice he couldn't quite place, with an accent crisp and formal, like none he'd ever heard. The calls started coming in a little bit more when Sam met Yemal's younger brothers, Sadeem and Mahmood. Talking was a way to pass the time when it was too dangerous to go out on the streets. Sometimes when Yemal and Sadeem and their parents had to leave the house, Yemal would ask Sam to babysit Mahmood over the phone. Just talk to him and keep him company in case he got scared. Sadeem's the middle kid. Three years younger than Yemal and three years older than Mahmood. Sam remembers a few days he and Sadeem just talked all day. From early in the morning till the evening when it started getting dark. In their early phone calls, Sadeem read Sam [UNINTELLIGIBLE] and several Iraqi poets. I was working at a teen clinic for girls at the time and as Sadeem reached 15, he would send the girls poems he'd written about life in Iraq. They'd respond by writing meth poems and heroin poems. And send Sadeem little construction paper cards that said, thank you for your service. Sadeem told me, make sure you show those girls my picture so they know how cute I am. And he was cute. Red soccer jerseys, curly dark hair, big eyes with long lashes. When things got bad though, after Sadeem and Mahmood were injured for the first time by a suicide bombing in 2005, Sadeem started asking me questions like, where do those girls you work with cut on their arms? And how do you fix PTSD? He'd say he was going to hurt himself, and then he'd hang up on us. Then call back a few minutes later and apologize. March 8, 2010 when I answer the phone, Yemal says, it was a horrible day yesterday. The media will tell you the elections were a [BLEEP] damn success. But there's no success when people die. He's on the bus home coming from just west of the green zone, where his brother, Mahmood, lives with their parents. Yesterday, Mahmood had been walking down the street and there was a bomb explosion. He came home with a hand just hanging and said that hurt, Yemal says. And I said, I understand why because it's broken. So he had to go to the hospital. But he's home now. Can you hold on a minute? I'm getting off the bus. Sure, I say. It's a Monday. I talked to the boys sometimes by phone and e-mail, but didn't ask to talk yesterday because I didn't want to mess Mahmood's Sunday's scheduling. Mahmood is 16 and it's his self-proclaimed duty to make sure everyone gets equal time with Sam. He even sets an alarm that goes off when one person's turn is finished, so the next one can start. When I ask how Mahmood is doing other than the broken arm, Yemal says, as you know, this year he got a girlfriend and got engaged. And then she got killed in a suicide bombing. It goes up and down with him. He still has lots of nightmare. Yemal believes that of the three boys, Mahmood's most affected by the war. He doesn't remember the Iran-Iraq War or the Kuwait War, and he was too little to remember the deaths caused by the oil for food program the way Yemal does. So when Mahmood was nine in 2003 and the war started, he'd never really been around bombs. So, Yemal says, he's the most scared. Mahmood is the one Sam talks with most on days other than the scheduled Sundays. We'll be in the line at the grocery store and Mahmood will text, I'm scared, Yam. I can't sleep. He's got this little Elmo voice. It's matured slightly over the years, but you can almost here that tiny Elmo sound when you read his text messages. Sometimes he'll just write, Yam? Yam? He's been calling Sam that since they first started talking and the name just stuck. Yemal's off the bus now, walking in Sadr City. He tells me to wait a second, a bomb just went off. I just want to see where it is, he says, hold on. I hear a man's voice very close speaking in Arabic and an ambulance gets loud, then moves away. They're not driving to the part of the city where Mahmood lives, so I don't have to be so nervous, Yemal says. It's a half hour bus ride from Mahmood's house to Yemal's. He says where Mahmood lives, there are about eight or nine explosions every day. And where he lives it's more like two or three. And how are you, Yemal asks. It's the question I find the most insinuating, the most difficult to answer. Pretty good, just going to school and working at the dog daycare. Yemal tells me how weird it is I work with dogs. He seems annoyed every time Sam or I coo on the phone about something cute our dogs are doing. Here dogs are hated, Yemal says. If you come near them, they growl. When you're putting together a body after an explosion, the dogs come and try to eat it all. You have to kill them. I kill a lot of dogs. I remember when Mahmood was in a coma once and bleeding, and the dog came nibbling on him and I killed him. Basically, people have a goat or a camel or a donkey or a horse. Once we had a hamster named Benjamin. Sam probably talks to the boys more than he talks to anybody. He always wanted brothers when he was a kid. Someone to play hide and seek with, to play guns with, or go somewhere dangerous. Sam says his relationship with the boys is like having brothers, but in a different way than he imagined back then. More intimate. When Sadeem and Mahmood hit teenhood, they turn to Sam for advice. They translated the rush of hormones they were feeling into the English word, "drifts." So they'd ask Sam stuff like, how did you handle your drifts? And when will the drifts stop? He said something like, the drifts won't stop, you just learn how to deal with them and it gets easier after a while. Their friendship happened so gradually. Sam knows it's unusual, but it really only hits him how strange it is that he's so close with three people in the middle of a war when the boys tell them something especially disturbing about what they've seen, or when Sam tries to explain the phone calls to anyone here. He doesn't do that very often. Because when he's tried it's always seemed to backfire. When he told his parents he knew Iraqis, they seemed skeptical. And when it comes up with friends, some are interested, but others think it's weird and treat it like a joke. One night Sam was at the Twilight Lounge with a bunch of friends and Sadeem called. Sam's friend, Ana, asked who he was talking to that was so important. When he said it was one of his Iraqi friends, Ana said she wanted to talk to him. Sam had thought it was all in good fun, so he was like, all right, go ahead and say hi. And she said to Sadeem, say something dirty in Arabic to me. Sadeem was so angry. He said to Sam, why do you spend time with people like that? Why are there people like that? On January 31, 2009, a year and a half ago, provincial elections held in 14 Iraqi provinces were celebrated in headlines as peaceful and almost violence free. But that morning, 17-year-old Sadeem told his friends and family in Baghdad, this is not a country. It's not a democracy. It's not peace here, nor is it more peaceful. There's no future here. He and his 16-year-old wife Rasheeda , who is pregnant with twins, pulled their adopted daughter, Yolena , out of preschool, quit their jobs, and signed on with a truck driver who said he would take them out of the country. Sadeem told me he left because he didn't want to raise his family in a city so violent. He and Rasheeda have now lost four of their six children. Although for reasons arguably unrelated to the war. Irina died in the womb. Ahmed , one of the twins, was premature and died 12 days after his birth. Their first adopted child, Abdul, passed away in 2008 due to a breathing problem. And their second adopted child, Yolena, who was deaf, partially blind, couldn't walk, and was expected to live only until the age of three, passed away from pneumonia two weeks ago at the age of six. The two other children are Yuwad who's one, and Saleem , who's almost two. Saleem's also adopted. He was found on the steps of the child home and the workers called Sadeem and Rasheeda to see if they would take him. At first we said no because we already had Yolena and Yuwad Sadeem says. But then of course, they sent a damn photo of him. So a year ago, Sadeem and Rasheeda were saying goodbye to Baghdad. Sadeem can't say how long they spent in the hot, dark back of that truck with no bathroom, worrying over Yolena who was prone to seizures. But after a couple of days when the driver finally pushed them out, they realized they weren't in Kuwait or Saudi Arabia. There are still in Iraq, right near the western border. After spending a few days in a refugee camp, they walked an hour to a village and decided to stay. They'd hoped to be counted among the 201 million Iraqi refugees who made it to Syria, or Jordan, or some other country. But instead, they're counted among the 2.8 million who have been displaced inside Iraq by the war. Sadeem found a job almost right away teaching three- to five-year-olds at a mosque. They have to learn how to read the Quran in a specific way, to recite it like singing. He says the students are very, very behaved. Sadeem says his new village is so calm. There are no soldiers, there's not much traffic. And he says, people aren't constantly worried about bombings. If you're at the grocery market and you stand in line with 15 people, it doesn't really matter because people take it easy, he says. It's not like in Baghdad where if there are two people in front of you, you're like, ah, there's two people in front of me. I'm going to die. Back in Baghdad in early April, about three weeks after the elections Yemal was so upset about, he sent Sam a series of short text messages. He though he was in danger. There were people coming around his neighborhood. He didn't have many details and asked Sam to see what he could find out from news reports. Sam found articles online about gunmen dressed at soldiers going door-to-door in neighborhoods near where Yemal's family lived, shooting and slitting the throats of Sunnis. Yemal is Sunni and Yemal's wife was just about to have her baby. She was in the hospital. So Yemal took his four-year-old daughter, Malika , and texted Sam that they were going to stay away from home for a while. Neither Sam nor Sadeem heard from Yemal or Mahmood for a few weeks after that. Finally they got word that little Malika was spotted by a neighbor wandering near some storefronts. She was taken to an uncle's house. Malika said she'd been with her father when there was a bomb and he told her to run. So Sadeem took the 12 hour bus ride up to Baghdad to help in the search for his brothers. He wrote on his blog, where are you, Yemal? Where are you, Mahmood? After he had returned to his village with no success, we heard from Sadeem's friends in Baghdad. Yemal's wife, Temara , had had her baby, a little girl, and was doing fine. Yemal and Mahmood had been found in a hospital. Mahmood injured but OK, recovering from an infection. Yemal in a deep coma with very little brain activity. Months before all that, Yemal had chosen Sam to be an [UNINTELLIGIBLE] to his baby. Which is sort of like a godfather. Since Yemal is still in a coma and the baby's getting on a month and a half old, the responsibility falls on Sam, Sadeem and Mahmood to help Temara name her. So in early June Sadeem calls. He runs name ideas by Sam. What do you think about the name Leila. Leila? There's a very similar name in English and an Eric Clapton song. Oh, Sadeem says. Is that Temara is thinking about? No, it's what I'm thinking about. I think that'd be a beautiful name. I don't know. That or otherwise I was thinking about the name Emina. But then I remembered you have a damn cat named that, says Sadeem. Sorry, did we ruin that name forever? Hefiza. Say that name again. Hefiza. What does hafiz mean again? Love? Yeah, it's the female version of hafiz. I'd be a pretty big fan of that name, Sam says. Well, I don't know. I'll give Temara a few names and then she'll see which one she want to name her. But she's such a good little fluffy baby. How's the mom doing? She's OK. As good as she can be, I guess. From the hospital In Baghdad, a friend puts the phone up to Yemal so Sam can speak to him. There's hope that even though Yemal's in a coma, he might hear and understand the voices of his friends. Sam tells Yemal that he loves him. As Sam talks he hears the machines that keeps his friend breathing. Yemal slept through his 23th birthday, May 29, His friends have been writing on his Facebook wall and I've been looking at the pictures. The last thing Yemal posted was a cover the Aerosmith song, "Don't Want to Miss a Thing." A song I always thought was cheesy, so I never opened the link. So Yemal can't speak and Sadeem can only call when he visits Baghdad or Basra. Sam misses them, but he's still on the phone every week to Iraq for four hours. He's got a new schedule. Some Saturdays he talks to Mahmood. And on Sundays, he talks to their friends in Najaf. They tell him whatever news they have about the boys. Now they've become Sam's friends too. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Sara Blaisdell lives in Virginia. <SUBJECT:PAUL DAVIES> So supposing we find that there is a radio source, or at least evidence for alien technology at some particular location in the galaxy-- <HOST:IRA GLASS> This is Professor Paul Davies, author of a book about all this, The Eerie Silence and chair of this task force. <SUBJECT:PAUL DAVIES> The the task group feels that in the first instance, we should not disclose the coordinates in the sky of this source, simply because we don't want any random crackpot setting themselves up as a self-appointed spokesperson of mankind and commandeering a radio telescope and sending their own homespun wisdom. Because if we're going to respond to some sort of contact like this, we have to think very carefully about what we want to say. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> In your book you write, "A message concocted by a committee would be a recipe for the lowest common denominator, and is likely to consist of banalities. Statements solely by a politician or religious leaders to horrible to contemplate." What do you think should be in the first message? <SUBJECT:PAUL DAVIES> I err on the side of comprehension. That is to say that I think we should pick a message which is certain to be understood by them and that we might pick one of the fundamental numbers that come out of atomic and quantum physics and send that as an indication of our level of understanding of basic science and mathematics. Now if we attempted for example, to send details of the US Constitution or something of that sort, of course it would be completely incomprehensible. Some people think that music is the finest achievement of the human intellect, but music appreciation is so tied to the human cognitive system, it may just be completely meaningless to an alien brain an alien mind. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Send that stuff later, Davies says, once they're getting to know us. First message, be simple and comprehensible. Numbers. Sent in binary code, zero's and one's. But apparently not everybody on our planet has gotten this memo. <SUBJECT:VENETIA> Hi, my name is Venetia and I'm part of a groundbreaking new project that lets Bebo users make their mark on history. When you look into the night sky, there's a star 20 and 1/2 light years away. <HOST:IRA GLASS> This was on a social networking site called Bebo a little while back. There's a planet 20 light years away that this website says, theoretically could hold life. Maybe. <SUBJECT:VENETIA> We want you to create a message that we'll beam out of solar system and across the galaxy. In just over 20 years when the message arrives at our target planet, the photos, drawings, and words submitted by Bebo users could be the first things that another world ever learns about mankind. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Well, we got a hold of some of these messages from Bebo users that were actually sent by a radio telescope to this distant alien civilization that they hope anyway, is there. Presumably, super advanced if the can hear and understand us. One of the messages here, "I don't believe in aliens. But I suppose if you're getting this now, I was epically wrong. P.S. We invented the George Foreman grill, therefore we're better than you." Another, "George Sampson is amazing-- and then there's a smiley emoticon. He's so talented, lovely, and gorgeous. He's such an inspiration-- I'm reading it this way because there are exclamation marks by the way. He's such an inspiration to other dancers, plus deserves everything he's gotten. Congrats on everything, George, and good luck for the future. I love you, XX." Another, "I love someone very much, but they got someone else." Another, "Anybody for a cup Of tea?" Another, "You're lucky to live over 20 light years from Earth. By the time you read this, I will be getting my state pension and my country's capital, London, will be under water due to global warming melting our ice caps. The white bits that you see at the top and bottom of our planet. P.S. Don't invent/use fossil fuel based engines." And this one, my favorite. "Hi aliens. If you get this and you get coordinates and stuff from Earth, please don't come and kill us because that's not nice. Thanks. Unless you kill us, then no thanks. From Morgan Nagle." People also sent pictures of themselves, of their guitars and drum sets. There's several stick figure drawings. There are lots of logos from sports teams. And a surprising number of photos of Heath Ledger as the joker. <SUBJECT:PAUL DAVIES> In the cause of these exercises where messages have been invited using social networking sites-- <HOST:IRA GLASS> Again, Professor Paul Davies. <SUBJECT:PAUL DAVIES> --it's alarming and a bit depressing to see the sort of messages people send it. Mostly they're at the level of sentiments about their boyfriends or girlfriends or something of that sort. I have to say that I, myself, don't have any great misgivings because I think the chances of these transmitted signals ever being picked up by an alien civilization are very small. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Also, he says, the aliens won't understand a word of it in all likelihood. He also takes a dim view of the space probes that NASA has sent out with messages for other civilizations. The Voyager spacecraft had an actual phonograph record with sounds from Earth. We've sent the Beatles song "Across the Universe " into space. The Pioneer spacecraft had a plague on it with drawings of a naked man and woman. The man's hand raised in greeting. Davies was written about this in his book. <SUBJECT:PAUL DAVIES> The picture is dominated by the human shapes. Yet our physical form is probably the least significant thing we can say. It's almost completely irrelevant, both scientifically and culturally. To put it bluntly, who gives a damn what we look like? The raised hand is the height of absurdity. Such a culturally specific mannerism would be utterly incomprehensible to another species. Especially one that might not have limbs. This half-hearted attempt to put our stamp on the cosmic community is distinctive in its narrow-mindedness and preoccupation with 20th century science and human affairs. <HOST:IRA GLASS> For now though, since it seems that anybody can borrow one of these radio telescopes to beam out a message, what we're sending into space includes stuff like this from that Bebo project. "We have pointless sports such as golf. You hit a ball with a stick and aim for a hole. Also a game for the rich. Now we have fun games like rugby. We hurt each other for a ball to gain points. Football is a boring game to some and not to other, but if you think of it, all sports are pointless. Just something to keep us happy." [MUSIC- "FEELS LIKE THE FIRST TIME" BY FOREIGNER] ACT 4: Well our program was produced today by Lisa Pollak and me, with Alex Blumberg, Ben Calhoun, Jane Feltes, Sarah Koenig, Brian Reed, Robyn Semien, Alissa Shipp and Nancy Updike. Our senior producer Julie Snyder. Seth Lind who is our production manager. Emily Condon's our office manager. Music help from Jessica Hopper. Jonathan Mitchell created our audio simulation of the sound that Scott heard with his cochlear implant in the open of today's show. [ACKKNOWLEDGEMENTS] <HOST:MIKE BIRBIGLIA> I'm a terrible kisser. That's kind of my thing. <HOST:IRA GLASS> I'm Ira Glass, be back next week with more stories of this American life. <HOST:MIKE BIRBIGLIA> Me too, dude. Me too. [MUSIC- "FEELS LIKE THE FIRST TIME" BY FOREIGNER] <EPISODE NUMBER:312> <EPISODE NAME:How We Talked Back Then> <HOST:IRA GLASS> From WBEZ Chicago, it's This American Life, distributed by Public Radio International. I'm Ira Glass. Long ago, when our radio show was first on the air, we tried an experiment, two experiments, actually. We did two of our shows onstage in Chicago within six months of each other. In the first, at this small club called the Lunar Cabaret, we had a kind of open mic, where people came onstage and they read letters, letters that they'd received, letters that they'd written, letters that they'd found. The second show, at the Museum of Contemporary Art, was all about this new phenomenon called the internet. This was 1997, and most people were still just discovering the internet. And we invited our listeners to come on and tell us stories about things that were happening on the web that never would have happened anywhere else. Today on our radio show, we're going to go back to those two shows. They're like little time capsules, those shows. The internet stuff, which is going to be the second half of today's program, it just seems so quaint that we were asking ourselves, how big is this internet thing going to be? Is it really going to change things? And the letters that people read onstage that we're going to play in the first half of  the show, even that feels like it's from a completely other time. Like, today, who writes letters? When do you write a letter except for a thank you note or a letter to get a job? Even soldiers in Iraq, when they write home to their families, they use email. My co-host for both of these old shows was a Chicago playwright named David Hauptschein. David had been hosting and organizing events like this around Chicago where he would have people come onstage and read letters. So let's go back in time to 1996 and 1997. <HOST:DAVID HAUPTSCHEIN> All right, you see this egg timer here? This egg timer will get you off the stage after five minutes. When you hear [BELL RING] that, you must stop. If you're really nervous, I have this little elephant for people to hold, in case they're really-- <HOST:IRA GLASS> He's holding up a-- <HOST:DAVID HAUPTSCHEIN> Oh, it's a rhino. Sorry, sorry, sorry. <HOST:IRA GLASS> You're holding up about a six-inch long, gray rhinoceros, fluffy rhinoceros. <HOST:DAVID HAUPTSCHEIN> So I will leave this up here on the podium. So if anyone gets really tense, just hang on to this. <HOST:IRA GLASS> I hold in my hand a bowl, a silver bowl full of pieces of paper on which members of our audience here have written their names. <HOST:DAVID HAUPTSCHEIN> Please pick the first name, Ira. <HOST:IRA GLASS> John Beaderman, come on up. [APPLAUSE] <SUBJECT:JOHN BEADERMAN> OK, I'll read you a couple things from Carolyn. Hiya, hun. What are you up to? I'm listening to Motley Crue, Shout at the Devil. That's a pretty kick-ass tape. It's Joe's, but it's still a kick-ass tape, and Vince Neil is such a fox. I'd love to go backstage at a Crue concert. I'd be in total heaven, because I know what I'd do, and I'll bet you do too. Like my green marker? I think it's cool. Explain this to me. Something fishy's going on. What? I don't know. But you're acting fishy, so don't lie, and it's nothing I did. I don't act any different than before we did it. Are you trying to say that I'm acting different, or I'm slightly more insane than unusual? Is that what you mean? I'm acting differently? If that's what you mean, how? I just heard Judas Priest [? talking to ?] Dio. That's pretty kick-ass. Why did Chris ask for me today? And why did you guys hang up on me? That's pretty ignorant, not to mention immature and rude. I'm listening to Motley Crue, "Bastard" again, so they are so cool. I haven't decided if I like Crue or Maiden better yet, but they're both totally kick-ass. God, is this note [BLEEP] dumb. It's 7:30 and I want it to be 8:30 because then I can listen to RPM, Real Precious Metal 103.1. 831-1031. Kick ass! "Helter skelter, you may be a lover but you ain't no dancer, helter skelter." [APPLAUSE] <HOST:DAVID HAUPTSCHEIN> OK, Ira. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Next reader, Neal Pollack. <SUBJECT:NEAL POLLACK> Hi. I wrote-- can I hold this? <HOST:DAVID HAUPTSCHEIN> Please do. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Neal is holding the rhinoceros. <SUBJECT:NEAL POLLACK> I wrote these letters soon after I graduated from college. And I like to turn back to them every now and then to remind myself what an idiot I was. I believed at the time that I could get any job I wanted anywhere at any point. And these letters, I think, are indicative. Here's one I wrote to Tina Brown, who was then the editor of Vanity Fair magazine. Dear Ms. Brown, I'll cut to the quick. [LAUGHTER] I would like to work for The New Yorker, and I imagine, with the big changeover, you may need lots of editorial help. So I'm throwing my hat into the ring and asking you to consider hiring me as an editorial assistant for your new project. I've been precociously reading The New Yorker for some time now. Most of the writers I respect most, living and dead, have written for your magazine at some time. I'm willing to cut my journalistic and literary teeth elsewhere if I can't get a job at The New Yorker, but I am determined not to end up anywhere else. The resume I've enclosed doesn't indicate this, but I've been working as a freelance writer since graduating two months ago. [LAUGHTER] I've been doing pretty well, but I'm still waiting for the big score. Maybe you could help. I strongly encourage you to take a chance on me, but if I don't suit your needs at this time, thank you for reviewing my application. I look forward to hearing from you. [APPLAUSE] About six months later, I hadn't yet heard from Tina Brown. So I turned my gaze elsewhere. Here's one I wrote to Strobe Talbott, who at the time was an editor-at-large at Time Magazine, and now, as you may or may not know, is a Deputy to the Secretary of State in the Clinton administration. So here's what I wrote to Strobe. Dear Mr. Talbott, I'm a damn good editor. I'm young and gutsy as a marine in combat. My terse, tough prose style would make Raymond Chandler weep. Somewhere, somehow, the grapevine told me that you're starting a magazine called Globe Review. Said vine also let me know that the staff will be small, which means you're not hiring too many people. [LAUGHTER] Being low man on the totem pole is fine with me. Your magazine sounds original, smart, and progressive, sophisticated but not shallow. Of course, I'm just guessing. Can you go global without me? I think so. Should you? I think not. Or at least hope not. I'll do good work as an assistant editor, copy editor, or researcher. I'll be in New York City from November 11 through 17. If you'd like to interview me, you can contact me at the Chicago address on my resume until then. Thank you for reviewing my application, and I look forward to seeing the magazine, whether I'm part of it or not. [APPLAUSE] <HOST:IRA GLASS> Next reader, Jenny Magnus. <SUBJECT:JENNY MAGNUS> All right, this is a letter that I received. It's addressed to me. So my name is Jenny Magnus. And on the envelope it says, "Lessons for Advanced Beginners." And then on the back, it says, "burn after reading." Dear Ms. Magnus, I almost fell off my chair when, during one of your pieces, you implied that you are, quote, "a really good artist." After sitting there listening to you chant "mama, mama, mama, mama, mama," which you got from Janov's book Primal Scream-- I shop through paperbacks at thrift stores, too-- then hearing you chant "give it to me, give it to me, give it to me, give it to me, give it to me," I sat there wondering just how conventional some pretentious chick dressed in black can be. I, by the way, use "chick" lightly, since you are not very feminine. In fact, you are nothing but a contrived, self-deceiving, selfish, not overly bright, mediocre joke. You might be able to fool the poseurs who hang around Urbis Orbis flattering your brother pretending to know, but not me, babe. Not me, babe. I use "babe" lightly. You are not a babe. You have-- [LAUGHTER] You have no sensuality, no charm, no looks, et cetera. Without affectation, without deliberately taking steps to appear avant, where would you be? Nothing comes naturally to you, does it? You really have to steal and grub and labor. In fact, you are perusing this letter for material right now, I bet. [LAUGHTER] I realized how repressed and affected you are during "Loser's Alias." And thank God for the fire which started, or you'd probably still be on the floor reciting your brother's tripe. You are just too, too uptight, baby. You think you can act uninhibited, but why do you want to? Is it that important to you that you seem to yourself and others as if you are special? You are quite interesting, the only person with absolutely no substance I've ever met. How did you get so [BLEEP]? Give up art. You're no good at it, anyway. And save your [BLEEP] ass. Sincerely, Mason 32 Degrees. PS, well, I've done my good deed for tonight. [APPLAUSE] <HOST:IRA GLASS> Our next reader, pulled from our bowl of readers, Adam Davidson. [APPLAUSE] <SUBJECT:ADAM DAVIDSON> OK. This is age 16. Dear Adam, I can lose my guard best when I write. No wonder I scared off S with my letter. Speaking of which, I didn't hear from him. You see, how can I ever think of hurting you like that? Let's say something starts between us. What about S? I may not like him, but maybe I do. Also, what if I'm just on the rebound from Dave? Not that I didn't like you before-- maybe I'm just free to say it now-- but I might be exaggerating it because I'm feeling a loss. Maybe we're confusing a really good friendship for love, et cetera. You know the deal. Also, let's say we do have sex. It'll be a bigger deal for you. Not that I won't take it seriously. I have seriously thought about it. But it's a big responsibility to put on me, your first time, et cetera. Now who's babbling? Anyway, [LAUGHTER] I think you're a wonderful person and friend, and the last thing I want to do is screw that up. Maybe we should just see, trial-run, if making out agrees with us. You never know, we might decide it doesn't feel right and keep things status quo. But we might end up getting it on every day. Excuse the vulgar language. As that guy in English class would say, "there is no pretty way to look at sex." Anyway, I love you, but I'm not sure what kind of love. Love, K. Geez, I don't even know what attracts me to you. You're so [BLEEP] perfect I guess. Then supplemental letter-- supplementary letter. Will things be the same once the sexual tension is gone? I think that's half the fun. It's what has kept Moonlighting on the air. Will we still be able to joke about getting married, et cetera, without feeling uncomfortable? Confusion, is there an S in confusion? I'm even mixed up about that. We went out after that for a year. [APPLAUSE] <HOST:IRA GLASS> Andrew Fenchel? <SUBJECT:ANDREW FENCHEL> OK, I found this letter in the street in my neighborhood. I think it won't really need any other introduction, except that where the letter-writer refers to Vienna, I think it's safe to assume that that's not Austria. OK. Time, 10:00 PM. June 10, '96. Dear Carla, what's up, babe? How are you doing? Fine, I hope. Well, I'm in Vienna. But I didn't forget to write. Baby, I miss you. I can't wait to see you. I've been thinking about you all the time, and I can't stop. I got into a fight in here with a king, and for that I got two weeks in the hole. Baby, I hope you're not talking to someone else. I've been waiting for your letters, but I haven't received any yet. What's up with that? Carla, I feel that you don't love me anymore. Baby, I love you more than what you could ever know. I miss making love to you, kissing you. Please send me some pictures of you. When I get out of here, I'm going to get a job. I'll even quit gang-banging if you show me you love me. Carla, what do you mean when you say you went from 100% to 50%? I don't understand. I haven't been cheating on you, and I'll be with you all the time when I get out. Carla, I care about you a lot. You just don't know. Why is your mom going to kick you out? What have you done? Please don't lie to me. Are you [BLEEP] around with someone else, staying out late? What is it? I've got the feeling you are seeing someone else, but I guess I can't trip, so long as when I get out, you come back to me. What do you mean that you love me and good luck in life? [LAUGHTER] I get the first part but not the second. [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] Are you breaking up with me? Are you going away from me? Whatever you do, wherever you go, you'll always be in my heart, Carla. Believe that. I know you think I don't love you anymore, but you're wrong, babe. I said it before and I'll say it again, I love you Carla. [APPLAUSE] [MUSIC - "I GOT A LETTER FROM MY BABY" BY ELMORE JAMES] <HOST:IRA GLASS> Coming up, a guy offers a girl a late night tour of Microsoft, and this actually makes him seem hot. That, and other hard-to-believe tales from the early days of the internet, from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International, when our program continues. <HOST:IRA GLASS> It's This American Life. I'm Ira Glass. If you're just tuning in, we're revisiting two live shows that we did in 1996 and '97, onstage in Chicago. In one show, listeners brought letters and read them onstage. And now we turn to the other show from back then. Back then, the internet was still new to most of us. And so we decided we were going to do a show where we would try to figure out what was happening on the internet, especially if things were happening on the internet that would never happen anyplace else. And to answer that question, we advertised in cities around the country, inviting people to send us their stories about life on the internet. Some of these people I interviewed, and then others just showed up at the theater, at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago, the night we did the show. And they came up to the mic, and they read from emails or web pages. And I have to say, listening to this show, it's almost adorably quaint, the entire mission of this show. It's almost embarrassing, actually, to hear me and other people trying to think through this question, like, what is this internet? What is new about the internet? You'll hear there is a point where I'm talking to a woman who's looking through the websites of complete strangers. And it's like, can you believe it? She's looking through the websites of complete strangers. And then she has this experience, which now is incredibly common, where she meets in person somebody who she first met on the internet. And we're all talking about it like, can you believe that such a thing can happen in this world that we live in? You'll hear. It's really interesting. It's like a historic document. So without further ado, let us turn on the time machine and go back to 1997. [APPLAUSE] <SUBJECT:MARY> And I came across this site that I thought was amazing. It was the most cutting-edge, thought-provoking site I had ever seen. And so I was examining it, checking it out, and I realized that this guy was my age, and he worked at Microsoft. And that just blew me away. Because I'm a student, I can barely afford coffee in the morning. And here, this guy worked at Microsoft. I ended up emailing him just to tell him how much I liked his site and how amazing I thought it was. And he wrote back. And that went on for about four or five days. We just kept writing back and forth. Really personal stuff, too, not just computer geek stuff. <HOST:IRA GLASS> What is the brave new world of the internet? You can meet a stranger and get to know them intimately, much faster on the net than you can anywhere else. But for a week, Mary and this guy wrote each other several times a day, long, personal emails. Then they agreed to meet in person at a coffee shop on Valentine's Day. <SUBJECT:MARY> I was nervous before we met, because I was worried that he wouldn't find me as interesting in real life. So we met for coffee. We ended up spending the next 12 hours together. There wasn't really a turning point until a few days later. We had continued to see each other. And one night, we ended up going out to his office at Microsoft. It was about midnight and nobody was there. And we were hanging out, and one thing led to another. And all of a sudden, we were making out. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And? <SUBJECT:MARY> It was crazy. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And you were glad, though, because you were liking him. <SUBJECT:MARY> Oh yeah, yeah. It wasn't a bad thing. But it was awkward because it was my first time. I had never really done that with anybody before. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> It was your very first time actually having sex with somebody? <SUBJECT:MARY> Right, well, no. It was my first time kissing anybody. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Kissing anybody at all? <SUBJECT:MARY> Yeah. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Because you hadn't had a high school boyfriend who you would do that with? <SUBJECT:MARY> No. No. I was a real big loner in high school. I didn't get out much. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> So it was your first time just making out with somebody and it was at Microsoft. <SUBJECT:MARY> Yeah. And so it made it all the more surreal, I think. It was just weird for me to think that, here's this guy I met a little over a week ago by chance on the internet. And here we are at his office doing this. And then after that, I barely heard from him. He told me that he didn't want a relationship right now, that he wanted to wait. He kept using the term, he wanted to make his first million before he had a relationship with somebody. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> His first million? <SUBJECT:MARY> Yes. After the fact, after the night at his office down there at Microsoft, I noticed, boy, he really was feeding me some lines there. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Really? <SUBJECT:MARY> Yeah. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Like what else? <SUBJECT:MARY> He actually was going to set me up with a copy of Office 97. He never did. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> The cad! At what point in the whole interaction did he promise you the Office 97, the free software? <SUBJECT:MARY> Actually, the first night we met. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Did you just think, he's feeding me a lot of soup? <SUBJECT:MARY> No. I thought it was cool, because I had heard some things about Office 97. Wow, I'd like to have that. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Now I'm sure you can only look back on the incredible naivety. Some young man is prowling the streets of Seattle, walking through the U District, telling women-- <SUBJECT:MARY> Got your free software. <HOST:IRA GLASS> People came to the Museum of Contemporary Art with their own stories about the internet. My co-host is David Hauptschein. <HOST:DAVID HAUPTSCHEIN> We're going to begin with Joe Fosco. In preparation for this show, we spent many hours surfing the net together and finding files that we thought were interesting. And Joe's going to come up and read some. [APPLAUSE] <INTERVIEWER:DAVID HAUPTSCHEIN> Wait a minute, Joe. Let me get this timer going here. I've got to put these other ones in different places. <SUBJECT:JOE FOSCO> This one I'm going to read now is a website of this guy who's building an aluminum ball, a ball of aluminum foil. And he went into quite a bit of detail about this ball. He says, "I don't remember exactly how the ball began, but it is a sphere, composed entirely of aluminum foil of various varieties. It is mostly candy wrappers with a few bits of foil and other food items mixed in. So far the best finish coat is York Peppermint Patty wrappers. Other foil is fine, but a coat of Peppermint Patty wrappers is necessary to keep it on. Gum wrappers also tend to have that quality, but they are far too difficult to peel, considering the minimal bulk they have. Gum wrappers do make a good finish coat on top of Peppermint Patty wrappers for show. Some items, such as Hershey's Miniatures, which look like they might be good candidates for foil, aren't. The ball is more impressive in person than this page can hope to depict." <HOST:IRA GLASS> There's a picture of the ball. <SUBJECT:JOE FOSCO> Oh, there is. I don't know if you can see it. [LAUGHTER] And then he has this diary of its growth. And it starts back in January. And he says, "we've gotten an electric postage scale in the office. It reads one more digit of precision, so we now have a weight of 3.9 ounces. I have done the math to compute the density of the ball. Curiously, it is much lower than that of solid aluminum. I have a hard time believing that the ball is less than half aluminum by mass, so I invite you to let me know if there are any errors in my computations. I expected that the density would be less than that of solid aluminum because of a small amount of air between layers of the foil, the adhesive coatings, inks, and small quantities of chocolate grease and other leftovers from the food items that the wrappers were originally used to package. I wouldn't have been too surprised by a 5% or even 10% difference, but I find the actual results obtained a little difficult to believe." The other interesting thing is that on this, he has links to other sites that are making aluminum foil balls. [LAUGHTER] And someone else who is making a rubber band ball. [APPLAUSE] <HOST:IRA GLASS> Our next presenter, our next reader, Noel. <SUBJECT:NOEL> My name is Noel, and I'm diastematic. Anybody here know what that means? It means that I have a gap between my front two teeth. For those of you unfamiliar with this whole website gap-tooth thing, I built a website for gap-tooth people. So yeah, idiotic. You want it? You've got it. But I'm in good company. 10% of America, including David Letterman, Lauren Hutton, Noam Chomsky, Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, Itzhak Perlman, Chaucer's Wife of Bath, Vince Lombardi, blah, blah, blah, all with the tooth cleavage. I must admit, for better or for worse, yes, I'm the one who built this website. But the emphasis is humor. In early November last year-- <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Wait, humor versus what? Like, attacks at people without gaps in their teeth? What would be the other thing that you would do? You would proselytize on behalf-- try to bring people over, encourage people to create gaps in their teeth? <SUBJECT:NOEL> Absolutely. This is very, this will hit on a lot of those themes. In early November last year, I was watching a Bears-Packers game. And during the pregame ceremonies, the USPS, the post office, unveiled art for a new stamp, due this summer, featuring the late, great Vince Lombardi, who was one of the greatest gappers ever to live. He was on a stamp, riding high atop the team in the throes of victory, smiling huge. But something was missing, Coach Lombardi's trademark gap-toothed grin. He had near-perfect pearly whites and the gap was gone. The next day, as a joke, I added a page to the gap-tooth website, protesting the post office's depiction of Lombardi as a cosmetically-altered hero. Who would Don King be if he were bald? Or Gorbachev without the Kool-Aid stain? Or Jimmy Durante without that nose? So knowing that this was the web, the oddball media that gets no real merit for its content, I expected little to no attention. But then came Yahoo, which featured it as a weekly pick. The Washington Post had me on the phone and ran a half-page story with my before and after pics. Chicago's Channel 7 came to my apartment and ran a story on its 6:00 News, just before the Super Bowl. Getting out of hand? Yeah, timeout! If you're thinking this pathetic web-based protest should never have received any attention, I'm in agreement with you. What was ironic about this story is that they painted me as a freak-- imagine that-- a super fan ready to strap myself with bombs and blow up my teeth and Washington, DC if they didn't change the art. And I thought, I'm just running a website for gap-toothed people. You can't take me that seriously. So I called up Bob, the artist of the postage stamp, and we talked about the stamp. We discussed angles and art representation. He was a really nice guy. I was thinking about dropping the protest already when he told me his three-year-old daughter was gap-toothed. And that was it. Protest over. But what still gets me today is that the web has the power to make insignificant things seem real, that email can really serve as a powerful form of protest, which it did in this case, and that people, including myself, really do have too much time on their hands. [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] <HOST:IRA GLASS> Well, for our next one, I thought we'd do one that people contacted us when we advertised around the country for things going on on the net. And somebody notified us about this one web page. We were searching for people who were having experiences on the net that they would never have otherwise. And this particular page was made by a woman named Jenni Ringley, a senior at Dickinson College in Pennsylvania. And like a lot of people, she created her own little home page on the world wide web. <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> There's the regular part of my page, I guess you would say, with information about me, the music I like, things like that, like everybody has on their page. The one item that has become extremely popular, though, is the JenniCam. And it's just a camera that sits in my room and takes a picture every three minutes and uploads it. So every three minutes, you can find out what fascinating thing I'm doing in my room. <HOST:IRA GLASS> The JenniCam is on seven days a week, 24 hours a day, and the number of people who want to see what fascinating thing is going on in a college girl's dorm room each day? <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> People, I'm not sure. But as far as number of hits go, we get over 500,000 hits a day. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> A half million hits every single day. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> A half million hits every single day. And what do people see? <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> Nothing, really. I write email. I sleep. I have friends over. You can watch my hedgehog when I'm not in the room. Things like that. Pretty much, just regular college life as far as I know. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Our associate producer tuned in to your page just to see what was going on. And for about a half an hour, she witnessed you on the phone. Every three minutes, there'd be another picture of you in a different position on the telephone. <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> I talk on the phone a lot. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> In a way, it's hard to think of anything more banal than seeing a college student's dorm room. <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> I would have to agree. I would absolutely agree. I don't do anything that's that interesting. I don't have company very often. I don't do anything more interesting really than talk on the phone, watch TV, and sleep. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Let me ask you to talk about the nudity. <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> Well, whenever I'm nude in my room, I'm nude on the JenniCam. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> But when I think about how often somebody is nude in the course of a day, it's really not very long. <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> Well, maybe I'm not an average person. But I figure when I'm alone, who really cares? I sleep naked, and I get changed. And when I get out of the shower, I'm all wet. There's no hurry to put on clothes. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Explain what the thrill is about being naked in front of a computer camera. <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> Actually, with the camera there, I don't think about it much. So whenever I'm normally naked in my room, that's when I would be on the camera. It really doesn't affect me in much of a big way, I would say. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> But wait, you're saying it means nothing to you? <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> I think the camera would be a lot less interesting if I paid that much attention to it. It would be more of a staged show, and you can go see a staged show anywhere. I think the whole appeal of the camera is that it is whatever is normally going on in my room. And with it having been up for a year and a half now, I'm pretty accustomed to it being there. It really doesn't affect me much, I would say. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Have there been any moments over the last two years where you were sort of sorry that the camera was in the dorm room? <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> Actually, it goes sort of the opposite way. Whenever I go home for breaks, for spring break or something like that, I'm always sad to be away from the camera. It's really a different feeling, whenever I'm in the room and the camera is broken, or for some reason, my room feels totally different. It's like I'm completely alone. So I usually prefer the camera be there, and I'm sad when it's off as opposed to wishing it weren't there. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Because you don't feel alone when it's on. <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> Right. Even though there's nobody actually there with me, even though I'm still alone, even if there's nobody watching the camera from the other end, it's just comforting to know that there is somebody metaphorically out there. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> In your view, why are so many people checking out the site each day? <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> A lot of the people, it's totally hoping to find me getting out of the shower, getting dressed for bed, things like that. It's hoping to find the nudity. But I get lots of email from people who say that it's just nice when they're alone in their office to know that there's somebody else out there, somebody else that is doing nothing more interesting than what they're doing at the same time. It's like having a little virtual friend. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Now, at some point in the two years, you've probably had somebody over in the dorm room to mess around. <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> Sure. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And? <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> At that point, it goes on the other person's comfortability. I have no problem doing that. And that's the whole point of the camera is that it's whatever I'm doing. When I went into this, I understood that, in order to make it really work, it would have to be no matter what I was doing. But I can't really enforce that on people who are visiting me. So if the other person is uncomfortable, then the camera is turned off, or it points to a different part of the room. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And generally, has the other person been uncomfortable? <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> Yes. Yes. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Was there ever a time that you actually had somebody over where you actually kept the camera on the two of you? <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> Yes, in fact. And the funny thing is that it never actually was broadcast because the number of people suddenly reloading on the server ended up crashing the computer that posted the JenniCam at the time. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Wow. <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> So even though we were there and the camera was on, the server was crashed by the number of people wanting to see. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> What's your impression of who these people are? <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> Oh, I don't know. Mostly men, it's almost exclusively men. I get about 700 emails a day. And of that number, maybe 10 are from women. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> You get 700 emails a day? <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> Right. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> What are people saying to you? <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> Well, a lot of those are entries to a contest on my web page called "Name that Curve" where once a week I put up a new picture of some close-up shot of a part of my body and people guess what it is. So I would say 300 or so of that number are "Name that Curve" entries. The rest of them are people saying either I saw your web page, I like your page, or can I call you, or can you send me private, special pictures? It really, really, ranges. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Jenny says she spends five to six hours a day answering email. And when I talked to her, on the one hand, there seemed to be something completely innocent in what she was doing, putting herself out there and not really caring who sees. And if you press her about her on exhibitionism, she'll tell you over and over, oh, no, no, it's not about exhibitionism. It's an experiment at letting people view a person's entire life without editing. Though, one thing that she's gotten on the internet that she could never have gotten so easily any other way is she's famous within a small circle. It's a small, particular kind of thing. <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> I do get a fair number, at this point, of requests for autographed pictures and people wanting to buy my hair and my clothing, things like that. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> What? <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> It's pretty scary. Well, one time, I was caught on camera actually trimming my bangs, because if you only have to do that, it's cheaper. And all of a sudden, I got 40 emails from people saying, are you going to do anything with that hair? Can I buy it from you? <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And what did you make of that? <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> Well, it's kind of scary. I mean, I do meet people from time to time. Somebody will say, I'm passing through the area, do you think I could meet you? <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And you say? <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY>  I actually have a pretty good knack for getting a good feeling about people right off the bat. So sometimes I say no, sometimes I say yes. I've had dinner with probably a dozen people from the JenniCam. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And has that been nice? <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> I had one person who had a hard time taking no for an answer, even after I made it abundantly clear I wasn't interested. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Really? That's kind of creepy. <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> It is, kind of. I've had a fair number of improper passes at the end of the evening. But it stays at a pass. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> If there were a cable channel that would just have a camera on in your room, with no sound, 24 hours a day, do you think you'd get a half million viewers? <SUBJECT:JENNI RINGLEY> I don't think so. I don't think I would, because if you have the TV, you have other things you can watch. I think it would still be popular, but I think at that point, it would be a lot less interesting. Because people can do this from their offices, at work, if they have internet usage that's not monitored. From work, you can just put it on and leave it on in the background while you're doing whatever else on your computer. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Jenni Ringley has just graduated from college. She's moved to another city, where she has gotten a job designing web pages for a big national magazine. [APPLAUSE] <SUBJECT:EILEEN KIEFER> OK, well, when we first got our email going on our computer, I sent a message to our son in Milwaukee whose address was K-I-E-F-F. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> K-I-E-F-F? <SUBJECT:EILEEN KIEFER> Yeah. It was my first time to use it, and I left one of the F's off. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Her email was a chatty email about everything going on in the family, signed "love, Mom." <SUBJECT:EILEEN KIEFER> So I got back a letter from someone whose address was K-I-E-F. And he said, I enjoyed this letter, but I don't think you meant it for me. And so then I wrote back and said, thanks and explained how I'd made the mistake. And he wrote back. And we've been writing now for, it'll be two years this month. <HOST:IRA GLASS> The man, the couple actually, who got her email were Kiefer and Galen Mitchell in Portland, Oregon. He works at Tandy and does a radio show out there. And when he got Mrs. Kiefer's email in his account, the thing that actually got to him was that she signed it "love, Mom." His own mother had just died two months before. His father had been dead for years. Mrs. Kiefer said she never intended or wanted to have a long-term email friendship. <SUBJECT:EILEEN KIEFER> It seems like we had nothing in common going in. The age difference, and they had no children, and they're Mormons and we're Catholics. So it seemed like there wasn't a whole lot that we had to talk about. But we never have any trouble. At first, we were writing every day. We were both so excited about this. And now, we're usually in touch at least once a week. And we've visited, and he's in Oregon. We're in Ohio. We visited in Portland last year and spent a couple days with him and had a wonderful time. And they're like 30 years younger than we are. So we've become mom and dad, and we've adopted them. We call them our legally adopted children. And in December, when I had a serious operation, he was on the phone every night, just like the rest of our kids. So he's really become one of our kids. <HOST:IRA GLASS> So what in the world was it in those first emails they sent two years ago? What could people possibly say to create a bond like that? <SUBJECT:EILEEN KIEFER> Oh, I don't remember. I just remember indicating that I was 70. So there was-- I didn't want anybody to think that we were going to have this big romance or anything. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And then-- <SUBJECT:EILEEN KIEFER> Because you read these stories about people doing weird things with people on the internet. We never had that problem. We have seven children. And all of them have email except one. And the ones out of town, we hear from a couple times a week. One of our daughters, we hear from almost daily. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Now, did you have as much contact with them before email? <SUBJECT:EILEEN KIEFER> Oh, no. No. We would talk on the phone maybe once a month. And it was always, how are you? And you never really were part of their lives that way. And two of our children live in Boston. And we just weren't-- well, we were always close. We weren't communicating very often. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> So email has really brought you all closer together. <SUBJECT:EILEEN KIEFER> Oh, it's wonderful. I keep trying to talk everybody I know into it, if their children have access to a computer. It's changed our life a lot. It's just changed our lives. I wouldn't think of not checking the computer first thing in the morning to see who's writing. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Eileen Kiefer in Dublin, Ohio. [APPLAUSE] <SUBJECT:EARL JACKSON> I was on AOL and other services in San Francisco a lot. And there are these chat rooms where gay men can meet and talk. And in San Francisco, it's fairly wild. There's a 24-hour bulletin board that I was observing for this study I was doing, where you could almost be guaranteed that if you lived in San Francisco and you had a modem, you could have sex any time of the day or night. This was a very goal-directed bulletin board. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Right. People would meet, go have sex. <SUBJECT:EARL JACKSON> Right. And you would know exactly what they wanted to do, and you would probably have nude pictures of them before that. What I also thought was really interesting-- and this  was more true of AOL-- that there was a new metaphysics of sexuality. Because people would talk about, cyber-sex or real sex? And it occurred to me after I listened to enough, by real sex they meant phone sex. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Oh, really? <SUBJECT:EARL JACKSON> Yeah, so it became, instead of a two-tier system, it's a three-tier system. And you have real sex, ultra-real sex, and cyber-sex. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Wait, ultra-real sex, you said? <SUBJECT:EARL JACKSON> That would mean what I call a slow-time interface, which means actual physical contact. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> God, do people still do that? <SUBJECT:EARL JACKSON> Um, yes. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Earl Jackson says that he meets more and more people who have hooked up what amounts to video cameras on their computers with a technology called CU-SeeMe, they can look at the person they're interacting with over the net. <SUBJECT:EARL JACKSON> I know people that actually leave physical dates to go home and have sex over the net with the quick cam. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS>  Come <SUBJECT:EARL JACKSON> It's true. There's an entire culture that's entirely video transmission sexuality now. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Talk a little more about that. You actually know somebody who actually left an actual date-- <SUBJECT:EARL JACKSON> Yeah, me, in fact. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Oh, they left you? <SUBJECT:EARL JACKSON> Yeah, they left me. But he said that that is what he does lately. And I understood that, because a lot of men are afraid of sexual contact because of AIDS. So the perfect thing to eroticize is distance. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And so he says to you-- at what point in the evening did he say, I'm going to go home now? <SUBJECT:EARL JACKSON> Pretty soon. He said that he really needed to do the CU-SeeMe stuff. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Back in December of 1993, Earl Jackson met a guy over the net in one of these gay chat rooms. The guy's name was Ken, who lived nearby, but he had a boyfriend so the two never met in person. But almost every day for a year, they got online together and created these elaborate fantasies together online, using that kind of software where you can see what the other person types as they type it, and they can see what you type as you type it. <SUBJECT:EARL JACKSON> We would have a fantasy about what if he came to my classroom and then I took him back into my office. But it was really sort of a game. But these narratives became so intense that we would set times of the day, or he would just check in. And he said, do you have time for a story now? And he would start it, and then I would continue it. And we have all of these stories. But as we kept doing this, then a little part of his life would come in. And then there would be a story that would take us somewhere else. And then I'd know a little bit more. And soon the sex part was really an excuse to tell the other stories. And sometimes he would be telling this story about his childhood in Missouri. And then it would remind him of a sexual fantasy. And then he'd put me in it. And you couldn't plan to do these things. We became sort of like jazz pianists or something. We'd have these riffs together. Then one day, he was asking me if I had time to talk to him. And I was just leaving, but I could tell that even the way he was typing was different. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> You could tell even the way he was typing was different? <SUBJECT:EARL JACKSON> Yes, yes. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> What do you mean? <SUBJECT:EARL JACKSON> People have different habits in their speed, or the way he would respond, or if he didn't put a smiley face after a certain number of words. I just knew there was something really wrong with the way he asked me if I had time. And he said, bad news, son. And I think I knew it instantly, what that was. He had tested positive. And he didn't know how to break it to me. And our messages to each other then became a lot more about that and about what happened to him as a child and other things that were fairly tragic and amazing that he was telling anybody, because he was really one of those strong, silent types. Then-- this is when I should have gotten more nervous-- he started saying that he didn't want any of his porn tapes anymore because he associated the porn with him being positive. So he wanted to mail them to me, and he mailed me a box of them. I didn't really want them, but he wanted to do this for me. So there was suddenly a box of porn tapes in my house. And then the following week, there was one too. And then just before I got back to San Francisco, I got a message from him, hoping that I was well and hoping I got the tapes. And he said that I'd get another message very soon. Now, he was writing to me almost entirely in capital letters, which scared me. And I didn't know why. But here's the last one. "I have it all boxed up now. I will give it my friend. He will mail it for me like he did before. And it will arrive either Thursday or Friday, via two-day express. I have a letter coming to you to help explain a few things. Thank you for being a friend when I really needed it. Kenneth." And then three days, nothing. And then there's just one line. "A package should arrive today. 1/19/95. Email me. Cruiser3. Bye. Love, Ken." And then on the 25th, there was one that looked like it was from Ken. It was his screen name. But then, when I opened it up, it said, "this is a hard note for me to write. Ken left a note to ask me to let you know Ken took his own life on Friday, January 20. He was cremated yesterday, and his ashes will be dropped into the ocean off of San Francisco today. Ken's mental attitude over the last four to six weeks is very hard to describe. He was a basket case to say the least. I will keep his account open for the next day if you have any questions or response, and I will try to answer them for you. Ken's friend, Dave." <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Did he send you a final note in the last package he sent you? <SUBJECT:EARL JACKSON> Yeah. It was the only time I ever saw his handwriting. And that said similar things. He said, thank you for being a friend when I needed it. And I would always love you. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> It must have been so strange to see a physical manifestation of him after the email. <SUBJECT:EARL JACKSON> It was. And what was really odd was that, when he first sent the first box of tapes, he told me which tape had a scene where the two people are the ones that he imagined us to be. Now, that doesn't mean that he looked like either one of them, but he knew the fantasies that would resonate with us. So even at that point, our fantasies were constantly mediated by some other technology, which is probably hard for you to imagine. But none of this was cold. There was something so tender about this that I was very moved by this experience. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> After he died, did you go through a period of mourning for him? <SUBJECT:EARL JACKSON> Yes, I did. Yes. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> What a strange thing to be mourning somebody who you never actually saw. <SUBJECT:EARL JACKSON> Yeah. Although, it's real. You know, when people say, oh, the computers are making us all isolated and it's such a cold world, I've had emotional experiences and long-term friendships that would have never possible otherwise. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> It's funny because it's almost like the whole thing, it could be a con, an elaborate con. <SUBJECT:EARL JACKSON> He would be such a creep that-- I thought of that, actually. Because it seemed almost like a melodrama from a long time ago. It was really tawdry. And if I wrote a short story, I wouldn't end it this way because it was too hokey. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> After he died, you know how after somebody you're close to is gone, how when you go back to the places where you used to go with them, you'll think of them inevitably and miss them. After he was gone, when you would get back on your computer, would you sense his loss? <SUBJECT:EARL JACKSON> Yes. He really felt gone. He really felt gone. When I saw somebody else using his screen name, I mean, to get a stranger with his screen name, that was really, really chilling. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Earl Jackson in Santa Cruz. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Well, our program was produced today by Dolores Wilbur, Julie Snyder, and me, with Paul Tough, David Hauptschein, Peter Clowney, Alix Spiegel, and Nancy Updike. Elizabeth Meister runs our website. Production help from Laura Doggett, Seth Lind, Thea Chaloner, and Sativa January. The internet part of today's program was a co-production with Chicago's Museum of Contemporary Art, Peter Taub, curator. [ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS] David Hauptschein's most recent play, The Ballad of Johnny 5 Star, premiered at the Edinburgh Theater Fringe Festival. Our website, www.thisamericanlife.org, where you can listen to our show for absolutely free, or buy CDs of them, or you know you can download today's program at our archives on that famous internet at audible.com/thisamericanlife. This American Life is distributed bu Public Radio International. [FUNDING CREDITS] WBEZ management oversight for our program by Torey Malatia, who insists he doesn't even know what Office 97 is. No matter what anybody says-- <SUBJECT:MARY> He actually was going to set me up with a copy of Office 97. He never did. <HOST:IRA GLASS> I'm Ira Glass. Back next week with more stories of This American Life. <HOST:ANNOUNCER> PRI, Public Radio International. <EPISODE NUMBER:250> <EPISODE NAME:The Annoying Gap Between Theory...and Practice> <HOST:IRA GLASS> There's a gap between theory and practice, and it's an annoying gap. Michael was learning how to box. His punches had some power. He was sparring in these little matches. He was feeling pretty tough. He was feeling really tough, actually. And then, one night, he's walking home on a deserted street and somebody picks a fight with him. Which in a way is exactly what he wanted. When you're learning to fight, you kind of dream that happening. <SUBJECT:MICHAEL> Because your moment will come. And I certainly thought that I was bad ass. And this guy wanted to mess with me. He was trying to mug me. He was trying to beat me up. I don't know what he was trying to do. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> And what he's saying to you? <SUBJECT:MICHAEL> Oh, he's asking me if I have any money. He's mad at me because I'm not talking to him. He's asking me if I'm scared. And he kept grabbing me. And I was certainly getting kind of freaked out, because there wasn't anybody else around. And the street was really dark. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Was he a big guy? <SUBJECT:MICHAEL> He was bigger than I was. And I turned around, and I really kind of intended to hit him. I wanted to hit him. But I just wasn't prepared. So I slapped him. And it wasn't one of those kind of "I challenge you to a duel" slaps. It was big. It was just a big, girly slap. He looked really surprised. His eyes were really wide open like he-- I don't think that either one of us could believe that I'd actually slapped him. And I slapped him again. <HOST:IRA GLASS> There was everything that his training to do in a real fight. And then there was what really happened. There was a gap between theory and practice. Heather was eight years old, on a school trip, on the bus, and she had to pee, badly. And the bus get stuck in traffic. Here's how she remembers it now that she's an adult. She says that her eight-year-old brain came up with a theory. <SUBJECT:HEATHER> I devised a plan because my little bladder was about to give out. And I decided that I was in the middle of the bus. I had a seat to myself. I thought I can pee really quietly, just kind of inch over my seat and go to the bathroom and no one will ever know. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Inch over my seat, you mean like pee on the floor? <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Like pee on the floor. Like just kind of very quietly pee on the floor. No one will know. <SUBJECT:HEATHER> So I inched forward in my seat and I peed. So that's fine. <INTERVIEWER:IRA GLASS> Right. <SUBJECT:HEATHER> It's working. The kids, the obnoxious boys, they're yelling at each other. The girls are talking, gossiping, whatever. It's actually working. I even felt a little clever. But then the bus lurches forward. I hadn't realized that the pee wouldn't stay put. That when the bus lurched forward, the pee would roll backwards. And all of a sudden, in the back of the bus, I hear, "It's pee!" All hell breaks loose on the bus. Everybody started leaping around the bus, all known bus rules were off. You didn't have to sit still anymore. You didn't have to talk quietly to your neighbor. You could scream. You could leap over the seats. And the only kid that didn't move, was me, which I realize now is what incriminated me. <HOST:IRA GLASS> The whole thing pretty much cemented her position at the bottom of the social hierarchy in elementary school for a few years. Kids called her the Peeer, Peezilla. They'd leave yellow crayons for her, sitting on her desk. From the time that we're very young, so much of our life is just making a guess at how things are going to come out-- making a little theory, taking our shot, and then living with the reality of what we've done. It happens in our personal lives. It happens in every kind of group decision. Somebody has a theory about what it will accomplish to invade Iraq, or to cut taxes, or to make a movie starring Ben Affleck and JLo, together as hit men. And they got their theory, they take their shot, they wait for the results. Today on our show, the annoying gap that results. The annoying gap between theory and practice. We have three case examples for you. Act One, Rock, Paper, Computer. Jack Hitt in that act explains the alarming difference between theory and practice when it comes to these new-fangled computerized voting machines. Act Two, Detroit Is in the House. An idealistic guy who's done lots of community work ends up representing for Detroit, in the state legislature, where he's witnessing the daily reality of democracy up close, for the first time. Act Three, Zero Divided by Zero Is Still Zero, What happens if you're poor and do everything right, all your budgeting, all your choices? Are you actually any better off? Stay with us. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Act One, Rock, Paper, Computer. Since the Florida chad nightmares back in 2000, a lot of communities around the country have been speeding up their purchase of new computerized touch-screen voting machines. These are designed to streamline the process of counting votes. They're designed to eliminate potential human error. That's the theory anyway. Jack Hitt explains how it works out in practice. <HOST:JACK HITT> With the bright clean world of touch-screen voting booths coming to so many precincts in America these days, I felt a little nostalgic walking into my local firehouse recently to vote for my mayor. It was to say the least, quaint. I brought along my two daughters. And our local alderwoman, Alfreda Edwards, was there to say good morning. Her regular opponent, Charlie Pillsbury, shook our hands too. The poll workers, about three or four of them, made a grand fuss signing me in. There were poll watchers there as well, the folks from the opposing parties, who ensure that the process moves along honestly. We all drank coffee and chatted about the raging issue in our neighborhood, the location of a new public school. Then a precinct captain pointed me to the booth. And I let my girls plink down the tiny levers. And after fighting about just who got to pull the big red handle, I won. We said goodbye to everybody and left. But this old world is soon to pass. Sure, there will still be poll workers. But the touch-screen voting booths will eliminate a lot of what those folks did. Instead of people running around with pieces of paper, computers will talk by modem and produce the vote totals. <SUBJECT:JIM MARCH> It's madness. It's madness. <HOST:JACK HITT> That's Jim March. He's a professional lobbyist by day in California. And he's been fretting a lot about the software running on these machines. Only three companies make them. And recently the biggest one of them, Diebold, accidentally left its supposedly secure voting software sitting on its web site, for anyone to download. And when people like Jim, who knows computers, looked at it, they were alarmed at how easy it would be to hack in and cause some real trouble. <SUBJECT:JIM MARCH> Literally alter votes, alter passwords, alter every single aspect of the file without a password of your own required and without leaving an audit trail as to what you're doing. <INTERVIEWER:JACK HITT> OK. Well, I have a computer in front of me. And I have the software, which I've downloaded from a public access site. So let's rig an election, Jim. <SUBJECT:JIM MARCH> Absolutely. Let's start by running-- <HOST:JACK HITT> Jim's in California. I'm in Connecticut on a friend's PC. The first thing Jim has me do is open Diebold's software called Global Election Management Systems or GEMS and go to where the password is stored. We peel the password off like a piece of scotch tape and replace it with our own. <INTERVIEWER:JACK HITT> OK. It asked me for a password. <SUBJECT:JIM MARCH> Yup. Under password, put in-- well, pick one. <INTERVIEWER:JACK HITT> Let's see. How about D-E-M-O-C-R-A-C-Y? OK. <SUBJECT:JIM MARCH> OK. And hit OK. <INTERVIEWER:JACK HITT> OK. <SUBJECT:JIM MARCH> Now go to the Slow Primary 2002. <INTERVIEWER:JACK HITT> Yeah. <SUBJECT:JIM MARCH> Open it. And put in the same password that you put in for Jack, which is democracy. <INTERVIEWER:JACK HITT> Wow. <SUBJECT:JIM MARCH> You're in. <HOST:JACK HITT> And then we change vote totals, which was no more difficult than just typing in different numbers over the old ones. Of course, you might think the system would track such changes and they could be discovered. But then Jim shows me how to clean up my trail and make my escape. He takes me to the audit log, a spreadsheet detailing every change made to the database, every instance when someone has logged in with the date and time, down to the very second of each command. I can see all the history of what's happened here, including my own tampering, all the keystrokes I just made. Jim has me drag the mouse down the page and highlight most of this history. <SUBJECT:JIM MARCH> All that's now black, correct? <INTERVIEWER:JACK HITT> Umm, yes. <SUBJECT:JIM MARCH> Good. Hit the delete key. <INTERVIEWER:JACK HITT> Yeah. There it went. Wow. <SUBJECT:JIM MARCH> Oh yeah. It's glorious. Do you understand? Even though you don't know what the proper password for the file is, you can restore it to its original condition and hide your traces. <HOST:JACK HITT> For months this software has been making the rounds on the internet, a kind of play toy for hackers. Especially since last July, when a Johns Hopkins University report on Diebold software scoffed that protections were, quote "far below the most minimal security standards." And went on to say that any insider, a poll worker, a Diebold software designer, or even, quote "a janitor" would be able to untraceably tamper with election results. In August, hackers started passing around a huge file, allegedly a collection of 13,000 pages of internal Diebold people emails written by its own employees that confirm just how easily penetrated the corporate software is. From the beginning, Diebold has been trying to stop all this. First, they issued a point-by-point rebuttal to the Johns Hopkins report. And it said that the software being passed around the internet by people like Jim is not the version they currently use in their machines. Diebold hasn't talked directly to the press much about all this and didn't return my phone calls either. Most recently, Diebold started issuing cease and desist orders to all the internet users posting these files. They claimed to own the copyright on the 13,000 emails, while at the same time insisting that the documents may not be authentic. All of this got seriously complicated on Halloween when a second touch-screen voting company, Sequoia, had to admit that they too had left an unprotected copy of their voting software on the internet. I called one of the country's foremost specialists on just such catastrophes, Rebecca Mercuri, the president of Notable Software, a computer security firm, and now a research fellow at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. I wanted to find out just how much danger we're in and if there's some way to stop people from hacking in and changing votes during a real election. <SUBJECT:REBECCA MERCURI> I don't know and quite frankly I don't care. That's not the issue. <HOST:JACK HITT> Not the issue? Hacking into voting software when step-by-step instructions to do what Jim showed me are posted on the internet? <SUBJECT:REBECCA MERCURI> There's a lot of hullabaloo, but in my opinion that was not as big a deal as has been made out about it in the writings that I've seen. It's not. <HOST:JACK HITT> For Mercuri, the hacking angle is the least of it. The problem is far more fundamental. The problem is that current touch-screen technology, even when it works perfectly, can't do one of the most basic things the old analog machines did. It can't show you proof that your vote was counted accurately. To understand why this would be difficult for a computer, you have to remember that voting machines must accomplish two slightly opposing things. First, they have to give people a way to vote without anyone finding out who they voted for. In other words, they have to provide total anonymity. But they also have to provide what is known in the voting machine business as auditability. That means if there were to be a recount, there's got to be some kind of paper trail to ensure the votes were counted correctly. <SUBJECT:REBECCA MERCURI> Computers are not really very good at doing anonymous things that are also accurately audited. When we do an audit in the computer, we record every single action and transaction that goes along. If someone recorded down the voters in the sequence in which they went in, that would reveal how they voted. And that becomes a problem in creating the voting system. <HOST:JACK HITT> The old voting system solved this problem in a graceful, analog way. Punch card technology literally left an anonymous paper trail, the punch card ballots. But what about those lever machines? They're just giant clicking odometers. You can't recount those votes. Are they any different in that way from the computer technology? <SUBJECT:REBECCA MERCURI> To put it simply, it's a vast world of difference. With the lever machine, you can open it up. And you can actually see the gears and levers and you can see that they're all connected together. And then you can test it out and make sure that it works properly. And you can see whether it's working properly. You can see it visually with your eyes. When we open up these electronic voting machines, even if they have all the buttons in the right place on the front, when you open them up inside, there's nothing to see. <HOST:JACK HITT> Strangely, it was the low techness of the lever machine that made it safe. Poll workers understood how they worked. And one of the things the poll watchers, the two representatives from the different parties, typically did at the beginning of a voting day was look inside to see if there had been any tampering. And then easily test to see that a vote goes to the right candidate. Then they'd wind back the machine to zero, and the voting day would begin. Now they're not allowed to do this. They can't really check to see if the machines work because they no longer understand what the machines do. The computer companies do the checking for them, and provide them with a list of instructions explaining how to turn the machines on. The poll workers have no choice but to trust the company. <SUBJECT:REBECCA MERCURI> The thing about these new machines is all it is, is a procedure. And all you can say is that you followed the procedure properly. <INTERVIEWER:JACK HITT> What you're saying is that we have the worst of both worlds. We have no paper and no way of looking at the system that's operating it. <SUBJECT:REBECCA MERCURI> Right. Exactly. <HOST:JACK HITT> Somehow, it gets worse. Even if we wanted to train Republican and Democratic poll workers in basic software testing so they could do what they used to do, we're no longer allowed to. <SUBJECT:REBECCA MERCURI> The way these machines are installed, they're protected like Coca-Cola. It's a trade secret law, which says that no one's allowed to find out what's inside of them. And in fact if somebody reveals it, they'll be convicted of a felony because they're purchased under a secret agreement. It's purchased with a trade secret protection on it. They're tested in secret. And I know that all the election officials always say, well, it was tested and it was certified. Well, all that's a secret too. And so even if we want questions about how was it was tested, how it was certified, we can't find out. <INTERVIEWER:JACK HITT> How did we manage to privatize the most public thing we do in this democracy? <SUBJECT:REBECCA MERCURI> It's the United States. What do you expect? It's capitalism. <INTERVIEWER:JACK HITT> Let's review. Our new and improved voting system has no way to do a recount and no way to look at the machines to see if they're working properly. So is there a solution to our streamlined, digital, paperless vote? <SUBJECT:REBECCA MERCURI> Paper. <INTERVIEWER:JACK HITT> That's it. Once again? <SUBJECT:REBECCA MERCURI> Paper. <HOST:JACK HITT> For years, Rebecca Mercuri has been going around with her revolutionary new idea, a touch-screen that generates a piece of paper. The voter can look at it to confirm the vote was registered correctly before it drops into an old-fashioned ballot box. Then if there were a dispute, anything from a machine malfunction to a suspected hacker, we could gather up the paper and do a recount. But the industry says it can't be done. <SUBJECT:REBECCA MERCURI> One of the things that they say is that the paper ballots will jam in the printers. And I really like that excuse since one of the companies, Diebold, makes the vast majority or a huge number of the ATMs in this country. And, in fact, none of those seem to have any problems with paper jamming. The paper is just flopping out, quite fine. Also when we come to the lottery tickets, gee, we have no problems with this jamming, even on those super lotteries where you got $100 million at stake. There might be long lines at the lottery ticket machine. But we don't hear about, oh, the paper jammed and we were unable to get our lottery ticket. I don't know anybody who's ever said that. This idea that we need to computerize everything and get away from paper is in no other place in the whole industry other than with voting machines. And in the thing that should be most critical to our democracy. <INTERVIEWER:JACK HITT> Why would they not want to do that? <SUBJECT:REBECCA MERCURI> Well, here's my theory. They looked at what happened in Florida. They saw a lot of paper. They saw a lot of people getting into a lot of hot water because of the way the election was conducted. And the last thing that an election official wants to have is a whole bunch of TV cameras and yelling people camped out on their front steps saying, count the votes, don't count the votes. And what did you do with your election? And so, if you make it impossible to recount the votes, then you're not going to have that problem, are you? <HOST:JACK HITT> Avoiding scandal has already led to some strange events, one of which Mercuri participated in. In 2002, she was asked to investigate a local election where everyone agreed that the numbers for one candidate were way off. It happened of course in Florida. <SUBJECT:REBECCA MERCURI> This guy was a very popular former mayor who was just getting back into politics one last time. And really, everybody knew him. And even if I had any doubts before I started getting involved with this case, when you walked down the street. people would come up to this guy and come up and shake his hand. <HOST:JACK HITT> She didn't think it was vote tampering or hanging chads or anything. She just thought that maybe the machine was malfunctioning. All she wanted to do something that not so long ago was pretty commonplace. <SUBJECT:REBECCA MERCURI> We just wanted to wind it back to where you could cast board votes and see if it was recording them all correctly. And they wouldn't let us do that. <INTERVIEWER:JACK HITT> Why? <INTERVIEWER:JACK HITT> What was proprietary about just practicing the vote again? <SUBJECT:REBECCA MERCURI> They said we weren't allowed to do that. It was proprietary. <INTERVIEWER:JACK HITT> This is crazy. <SUBJECT:REBECCA MERCURI> Tell me about it. It was proprietary. <INTERVIEWER:JACK HITT> But you're not asking to look at the code. You're just asking to like-- <SUBJECT:REBECCA MERCURI> No, I wasn't asking to look at the code. I just wanted to do a simple test of the machine. <INTERVIEWER:JACK HITT> Wow. <SUBJECT:REBECCA MERCURI> Would you accept a car if they told you that you could test drive it by only making right turns? I mean that's ridiculous. I don't think so. But one other thing further than that, even if it were possible to create the world's perfect voting machine that was a piece of equipment and it worked perfectly and it recorded every single vote and tabulated them correctly, every single time, I think that it is contrary to the spirit of democracy for us to trust that. <HOST:JACK HITT> Oh yes, the spirit of democracy, the ghost in the machine. In other words, all that busyness at the local firehouse, Alfreda and Charlie out on the sidewalk, the poll watchers inside with their chatter, trading gossip, the tallies carefully noted, or the box of paper ballots carried off under lock and key. Sure, all of that can be replaced by software modems. But it assumes that voting is really just another transaction, like buying a book off the internet, which is where we're headed. Nowadays, no one sells the old mechanical lever booths anymore, too low tech. And with the punch cards disgraced in Florida, more and more precincts are turning to touch-screen. In 2002, President Bush signed into law the Help America Vote Act, which includes $700 million to replace punch card and lever voting equipment. Most recently, the city of Boston and the entire state of Maryland have become Diebold's newest customers, buying into the dream of touch-screen efficiency. So clean, so uncluttered, and free of controversy. Back when America first opened for business, Europeans were stunned that any country would center its founding on a piece of paper, the Constitution. They thought we were crazy. We had no monarchy, no direct authority from God, no divine right of kings. We put our faith in a flimsy piece of paper, because after all the noise dies down, that's all a democracy really is. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Jack Hitt in New Haven. In elections this past week, there were new controversies for Diebold. Officials in California are saying that thousands of people may have cast their votes on software that hadn't been certified by the state, as required by California law. And some touch-screens failed in Maryland, prompting a lawsuit by Republicans. Coming up, more theory and practice. For instance, in theory you want to give $200 million to public radio so you donate to a very fine company, very fine news organization called National Public Radio in Washington, DC, without ever realizing that there is an equally worthy outfit called Public Radio International that also puts out some very fine programs, could use a little cash. But that was your theory. In practice, we actually won't hear about this at all in the second half of the show, which you'll hear in one minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International, remember the name, when our program continues. <HOST:IRA GLASS> This is American Life. I'm Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose some theme. And bring you a variety of different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program, the annoying gap between theory and practice. We have stories of people coming face to face with that gap. And we are at act two of our program. Act Two, Detroit in the House. Ten months ago, a political newcomer was elected to the Michigan House of Representatives, not because he had any childhood dreams of being a politician or because he really loved the spotlight or because he wanted power of any sort actually. He just had some ideas about how to make things better in his community, from experience working in the community, plus a masters's degree in public policy, and a law degree. The voters agreed that his ideas were the best. They sent him off to the government to make those ideas happen. And that pretty much was when theory and practice started to diverge. Alex Blumberg spent three days with freshman state representative, Steve Tobocman. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> Here are other reasons Steve Tobocman shouldn't be in office. His district is 80% minority, but he's white. At the time of his campaign, he didn't have any actual experience in politics and he was up against a two-term incumbent. And he ran in the most old fashioned way possible, no radio or TV ads, no special interest money. He went out and knocked on doors, every single day for four months. <SUBJECT:STEVE TOBOCMAN> And you'd spend so many hours knocking. I mean your knuckles would be raw. You knees would hurt. Your hands would hurt. It's a tremendous weight loss program. I actually to maximize, and this is a little embarassing, but to maximize the number of doors I could knock on, I would run, I would literally sprint between the houses to save time. I literally would sprint between houses. So one day I was sprinting down the street and I kind of jogged into this guy's backyard. And he's like, "Are you OK. Are you OK?" And I said, "What do you mean?" And he said, "Well, I see a white guy running in this neighborhood. I figured he was under attack or something like that." <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> Steve's district is a poor inner city section of Detroit. A city's whose problems are legendary, of course. It has the nation's highest infant mortality rate, lost half its population since 1950. And to give you an idea of the size of its middle class, the total number of Starbucks in this the 10th largest city in the country, three. 13 fewer than at O'Hare Airport. Steve had been trying to fix Detroit's problems for years in various jobs with various neighborhood economic development groups. Mostly he fought slow, bureaucratic battles to get abandoned buildings either torn down or fixed up. He can tell you all sorts of modest specific ways that government could help improve things by streamlining the way federal block grants are distributed for example or selling condemned properties to community and church groups for a dollar or to groups to rehab and sell at a discount to low income families. But these ideas usually went nowhere. <SUBJECT:SHARON TOBOCMAN> I mean Steve would come home for years and be frustrated, like you're working, you're working, you're working, and it seems like a good idea. And you can't get anything done about it. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> This is Steve's wife, Sharon. She says that all this changed during a dinner Steve had with a mentor of his from grad school. <SUBJECT:SHARON TOBOCMAN> Basically he said, stop complaining and do more. Like if what's making it hard are a level of politicians or a level of bureaucracy, then get inside that bureaucracy and change that bureaucracy. And he came home and said, "I think I need to run for office. What do you think about that?" And I was like, oh [BLEEP]. <SUBJECT:STEVE TOBOCMAN> I always thought, well you run for office and that's really about ego and it's very self-serving. And somehow that conversation was different because this was a view that spoke to me in terms of making a difference. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> So in other words, it made you think by becoming a politician you could actually do some good. <SUBJECT:STEVE TOBOCMAN> That was the thought. And every day you try and see if that's indeed the case. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> If you've ever wondered what the hell politicians do all day, I can say that if Steve Tobocman's any indication, a lot more than you do, pal. His workday begins at 7:00 or 8:00 AM. And this one includes among other things, a very dull hour plus tour of a social service facility, a 15-minute phone call with an Arab American constituent who believes her teenage son is being discriminated against in school, at the end of which Steve promises to call the principal. <SUBJECT:STEVE TOBOCMAN> And what would be a solution in your mind to the problem? <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> There's a lunch meeting with a business constituent who wants a favor, a staff meeting, some fund raising calls, and then in the evening, a two-hour town meeting in a high school gymnasium on the subject of insurance redlining. <SUBJECT:WOMAN 1> I just tried to buy a brand new car. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> An angry crowd of 20 to 30 Detroit home and car owners complains about insurance rates that are almost 50% higher than rates right across the border in the suburbs. <SUBJECT:WOMAN 1> The lowest I could get per month for insurance was $365 a month. The insurance would have been more than my car loan. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> Steve offers some suggestions. And one middle-aged Hispanic man, in a black satin varsity jacket and a baseball hat, grabs Steve by the arm and says, "We've never heard anyone talk so clearly about this before. You are the one who can help us. You are the light and we will follow you." <SUBJECT:MAN 1> You are the light. And we follow you. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> Steve gets home at about 10:00 PM. <SUBJECT:MAN 1> You are the light to me because I think there's treasure in every single time-- <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> And now it's 7:00 AM the next morning. And though it's still dark outside, the light is up and driving to Lansing, the state capitol, in his blue Saturn station wagon, where at least in theory he'll be helping the people he met last night. The problem of course is that Steve works with 110 other Representatives and they're all driving up from their own town meetings, where their own constituents have been demanding action on their own quite different grievances. Getting elected may give you a slightly louder voice, but it also sticks you into a much noisier crowd, the majority of whom couldn't care less about redlining or community development or frankly, the entire city of Detroit. And you don't care about their issues either. In fact, being a legislator involves spending a lot of time dealing with issues you have absolutely no interest in. Sometimes though, the issues you care least about can end up altering the course of your political career, issues with names like the Michigan Controlled Shareowner statute. In the car on the way to Lansing, Steve tells me the story. <SUBJECT:STEVE TOBOCMAN> I didn't know about it. And most people didn't know about it. Basically it was adopted in the mid-'80s to prevent hostile takeovers of Michigan companies, companies based in Michigan. And-- <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> Now as a legislator facing a bill you don't care that much about, you have two choices. You can A, assume someone in your party has looked at the issue thoroughly and vote how that person tells you to. Or B, you can do all the research yourself and come to an independent position based entirely on your own principles and convictions. No one does B. Well, except for freshman legislators. <SUBJECT:STEVE TOBOCMAN> When I first got to the legislature, I think every vote, I used to sit at my desk on the floor and as every issue came up, I would study it and get as much information as possible before casting my vote. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> Do you think that like of the bills that the sort of people vote on, do you think that most of the people who are voting for the bill actually understand how it will impact once it's implemented? <SUBJECT:STEVE TOBOCMAN> I think that you have a general gist of what the bill is trying to do. But in terms of understanding the specifics and that kind of thing and being able to articulate a detailed analysis, I think that it's virtually impossible. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> So just a month or two into his new job, Steve found himself reading up on the Michigan Controlled Shareowner statute. which had come before the legislature at the urging of the Todman Group, a private mall development company based in Michigan and owned by the Todman family. They were trying to fight off a takeover by an even bigger mall development company called the Simon Group and they needed a loophole closed in the law to do that. After a couple late nights of research, Steve decided the Todmans were right. And he agreed to co-sponsor a bill fixing the loophole. And that's when all hell broke loose. There were probably $2 billion at stake. The Todmans and the Simon Group had each hired their own army of lobbyists. All of a sudden there were a 100 or 200 people at committee meetings where usually they're only 20 or 30. Everyone took sides, business groups, unions, and of course, Steve's own party. The Democratic leadership approached him one day and told him to his horror that he was the only Democrat who had agreed to support the bill. Not only that, the Democrats were planning to run TV ads attacking the Todman supporters as tools of big business. And then came a pivotal caucus meeting, a closed door strategy session where the whole party discusses upcoming policies and positions. <SUBJECT:STEVE TOBOCMAN> There's one point in caucus where about five or six people have just blasted this bill. And used all of the sort of hyperbolic arguments that everybody had used against this bill, that the Todman family had given hundreds of thousands of dollars to Republicans and why should we be doing their business in the legislature? And this was based solely on campaign contributions. And I'm sitting there as a freshman thinking, man, do I look bad right now. And I'm going to look even worse when there's one Democratic vote on the floor. I mean boy, this is going to be embarrassing. So basically, finally I'm about the seventh speaker. And at that point probably more out of fear than anything else, I get up and begin to talk about the bill. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> Steve's colleagues still mention that speech to him. It was the speech of his young political career. He talked about what the bill would do to protect Michigan businesses and workers. He talked about jobs. He talked about Compuware, the big company owned by Peter Karmanos, that had just built a huge high rise in downtown Detroit. <SUBJECT:STEVE TOBOCMAN> I got very passionate. And I started talking about Mr. Karmanos's investment in Compuware revitalizing the city of Detroit. And should Microsoft come and take over Compuware that we knew those jobs were going to leave. And downtown Detroit would be vacant. And all these horrible things would happen. And the tone of my voice rose. The passion in my voice rose. And we went out onto the floor and had the vote. And 22 of my 47 colleagues ended up voting with me. And as a result, it overwhelmingly passed the House. And then because of that kind of support, it passed through on the Senate. And last week, the governor signed the bill into law. And that when I think about what caused that much emotion, I certainly don't think it was the Michigan Controlled Shares statute. I think it was more the fear of being the lone vote for the horrible Todman bill. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> The Todman bill earned Steve a reputation as something of a rainmaker on the other side of the aisle. And the Republicans who were in charge of getting the bill signed into law were so grateful, they've actually helped Steve move some of his own legislation. But what's funny is that this vote, a vote that enhanced his political standing in his own party, gained him valuable allies on the other side of the aisle, not to mention brought about a positive change in the law, is a vote that he wouldn't have cast today. Steve no longer studies every bill that crosses his desk. He uses his time talking to colleagues, enlisting support for his own issues. If the Todman bill came before him today, he would have listened to his party, not learned anything about it, and voted against it. <SUBJECT:MR. SPEAKER> The House will come to order. I'd ask all members to take their seats. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> On the huge floor of the Michigan House of Representatives, nobody is coming to order. The 110 lawmakers, 63 Republicans and 47 Democrats, continue to mill around and cluster in small groups. There's a big fight brewing today over two bills, Senate Bill 252 and Senate Bill 560, both of which do essentially the same thing, which is impose fees on anyone who discharges pollution into the water. One of the bills deals with groundwater, the other rivers and lakes. In any event, in both of them, the more pollution you discharge, the higher your fee. For small organizations like a day camp with a septic system or a small veterinary office, the fees are in the hundreds of dollars. For large entities like the Ford Motor Company or the City of Grand Rapids, they can climb into the tens of thousands of dollars. The idea is that the bills will encourage everyone to pollute less because that will lower your fees and thus lead to clean drinking water for everyone. Nearly every state has fees like these. Michigan is one of just eight states that don't. OK. One other thing you should know, today's fee bills were the idea of Michigan's Democratic governor. And earlier in the year, she'd worked out a deal with the Republicans, who control both the House and the Senate in Michigan by fairly large majorities. Each party had agreed to put up a certain number of votes to pass the bill. And as of last week, the bills come out of committee and everything seemed to be going smoothly. Today though, it seems that the deal might have fallen apart and that Senate Bill 252 and Senate Bill 560 are in trouble. Steve points to the computer terminal at his desk. <SUBJECT:STEVE TOBOCMAN> As you can see from the legislative schedule, there are 10 amendments right now in the docket for 252, 13 amendments for Senate Bill 560 that are being planned. And probably an equal number from each party. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> And that's a lot? <SUBJECT:STEVE TOBOCMAN> That's a lot. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> Generally speaking, all the Republican amendments do the same basic thing. They exempt certain groups from having to pay the pollution discharge fees. <SUBJECT:MR. SPEAKER> The Chair recognizes Representative Drolet. <SUBJECT:LEON DROLET> Thank you, Mr. Speaker. <SUBJECT:STEVE TOBOCMAN> Representative Leon Drolet, a Republican from the Detroit suburbs, gets up and makes the case. He says the pollution discharge fees are excessive and they've been foisted on his constituents by the Democratic governor. <SUBJECT:LEON DROLET> And I'd like to review some of who these polluters are that we're making pay and what the governor is proposing in her executive fees. For one of the polluters, the Sable Valley Nursing Home, the government proposes a $6,000 fee on them. Big polluters, like the KPEC Fellowship Christian Church, will have to pay $4,000 additionally under this proposal. The Boy Scouts of America would have to pay $2,500 in new fees and redo their-- <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> The line between political pandering and political belief is a hazy one. As I watch Representative Drolet, it seems his opposition is sincere. People tell me he's a principled and committed libertarian. If Steve sees himself as fighting on behalf of people who just want clean drinking water, Representative Drolet sees himself as fighting on behalf of people just trying to make an honest buck, without interference from the state. Both men think that if things ran their way, the world would be a lot better. And both men think that if things run the other guy's way, the world would go to hell in a hand basket. Watching Representative Drolet, I realize sometimes democracy is not about getting your way. <SUBJECT:LEON DROLET> I don't support this amendment because-- <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> It's making sure the other guy doesn't get his. <SUBJECT:LEON DROLET> It's the governor who's proposed these fees. It's the governor that made a deal to put them through the legislature. It's the governor that wants to charge Gene Ringley of Kleen Gene's Laundromat $2,000 additional a year. So let's let Gene Ringley, Jr. of Rosscommon, Michigan know who wants him to cough up the $2,000. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> Speeches like Drulet's make the Democrats on the other side of the aisle nervous, especially ones like Representative Jennifer Elkins, whose district is heavily Republican. She doesn't want Gene Ringley of Kleen Gene's Laundromat to think that she's taking $2,000 of his hard-earned money. And she sees that the Republicans are setting a political trap for her. Each of their amendments exempts some group of Michigan voters from this new government fee. If the Democrats oppose the amendments, the Republicans will use that against them at reelection time. She pulls Steve aside. <SUBJECT:JENNIFER ELKINS> We're going to get hung on this [BLEEP]. When the Republicans were meeting, our names were brought up-- <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> She tells Steve she overheard the Republicans mentioning her name specifically as someone's target. But Steve tells her not to worry. The Democrats met earlier and agree there's no point falling into this trap the Republicans are setting. They won't challenge the Republicans on any of this. In other words, they're voting for all the exemptions. <SUBJECT:STEVE TOBOCMAN> For the exemptions, we're all voting for the exemptions. They don't understand that's what we're doing. <SUBJECT:JENNIFER ELKINS> Yeah. <SUBJECT:STEVE TOBOCMAN> They think we're going to fight among them on these little nonprofits and churches. And that's [BLEEP]. We're not going to take that heat. You should vote for every exemption. <SUBJECT:MR. SPEAKER> All in favor of the amendment will vote aye. All those opposed, nay. The Clerk will open the board. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> On a big light display board at the front of the chamber, member names light up as they press their vote buttons. Red means no. Green means yes. Steve is the floor manager for the Democrats today, meaning it's his job to make sure everyone else knows how to vote. <SUBJECT:STEVE TOBOCMAN> Recommending green. <SUBJECT:MAN 2> What do you mean? <SUBJECT:STEVE TOBOCMAN> Why should we let them say oh, we protected you, and we didn't? That's [BLEEP]. They're all going to pass. You might as well be on there. Why should we let them vote for this and we have to take the heat on this? Green. <SUBJECT:MR. SPEAKER> All members voted? The Clerk will close the board. Tally, display, announce the vote. <SUBJECT:CLERK> Mr. Speaker, on the question of adoption of the Bradstreet Amendment 2D, there are 102 aye votes and 3 nay votes. <SUBJECT:MR. SPEAKER> The majority of the members electing and serving having voted in support of the Bradstreet Amendment 2D, it is adopted. If there are further amendments, the Clerk will read them. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> The debate about the fee bills drags on long after this, for four hours until 6:00 PM, well past the time session usually ends. And one of the bills ends up passing. But the other one keeps getting slammed around. Republicans continue to introduce amendments exempting various sympathetic institutions, farmers, schools, small towns. And they continue to pass with majority Democratic support. And then the Democrats turn around and introduce amendments that directly contradict the ones they just voted yes to, tightening regulations and increasing fees. <SUBJECT:STEVE TOBOCMAN> Thank you, Mr. Speaker. This amendment to increase fees for chronic violators of the Clean Water Act serves two important purposes. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> These fail, entirely along party lines. There's a highly choreographed feel to the whole thing. People don't cheer and high-five when their amendments pass. And they don't slam their briefcases on their desks when they fail. They're not trying to persuade each other or even to win. Each vote, each amendment, each speech for the record is solely about targeting the other party's positions at election time. The Republicans are trying to catch the Democrats raising taxes on the Boy Scouts. And the Democrats are trying to get the Republicans on record voting against clean drinking water. But not everything in the day goes according to script. There is exactly one time in the entire debate when someone introduces an amendment as a matter of personal conviction, and not as a matter of party strategy. <SUBJECT:JACK BRANDENBURG> The purpose of this-- <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> A Republican representative, Jack Brandenburg, introduces an amendment that mandates surprise on-site inspections at companies that pollute. In other words, that actually strengthens the environmental provisions of the bill. And he does it for the simple reason that he's worried about all the bad stuff going into the water. <SUBJECT:JACK BRANDENBURG> Currently, there are 600 toxins that if not discharged properly, are harmful to the health of human beings. Some of the most commonly discharged toxins are the following-- Mercury, linked to immune disorders and brain damage. Barium-- <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> Brandenburg talks for a long time before Steve and the Democrats even realize it's not the usual offering from the other side of the aisle. <SUBJECT:STEVE TOBOCMAN> We should all be voting for this. <SUBJECT:WOMAN 2> Well, I'll vote for this. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> The Republicans are realizing the same thing. You can hear the murmuring increase as people try to figure out what's going on. <SUBJECT:JACK BRANDENBURG> Copper is the most frequently discharged toxin into the Great Lakes, but we have not yet determined if this is in any way an effect on our health. May I have a little respect here please. Mr. Speaker? <SUBJECT:MR. SPEAKER> You may proceed, Representative. <SUBJECT:JACK BRANDENBURG> All right. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> Brandenburg finishes. The Clerk opens the board. And much more slowly than on any of the other votes, names begin to appear, one after another, many of them green. Republicans voting for a fellow Republican. And the Clerk closes the board. And it looks like the measure has actually passed. But then, the Clerk doesn't tally the results. Sits quietly, watches the Republican floor leader, who's talking heatedly into the phone at his desk. Other Republican leaders circulate around their colleagues. And gradually screen names start switching to red. <SUBJECT:MR. SPEAKER> Representative Middaugh votes nay. Representative Palsrok votes nay. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> At one point, I witness a classic backroom political horse trade done right out in the open, in the most blatant way possible, in the middle of the chamber floor. Virgil Smith, a Democrat from Detroit, sees which way the wind is blowing. Sees that the Republican floor leader isn't going to close the board until he gets enough no votes from his own party to kill the amendment. And so Representative Smith decides to help them and help himself. He gets up, walks across the floor with his arm held above his head, and his thumb pointed straight up in the air, as if he were raising his hand in school and giving the thumbs sign at the same time. He walks right up to the Republican floor leader, Randy Richardville, who's huddled on the phone, surrounded by his advisers. And he stands there, with his thumb in the air. Richardville puts down the phone, looks up at him, they have a brief conversation. And then, Representative Smith walks back to his seat, still with his arm in the air, but this time with his thumb pointed down. Whatever happened, he's now voting nay. <SUBJECT:MR. SPEAKER> Representative Smith votes nay. <SUBJECT:STEVE TOBOCMAN> He put nay. What did you get for that, Virgil? <SUBJECT:MAN 3> He got something. <SUBJECT:STEVE TOBOCMAN> He got something for that. Because they didn't want this to pass. <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> And it doesn't pass. After a brief digression from the day's script, Republican leaders continue turning green votes to red, until they have what they need. <SUBJECT:MR. SPEAKER> Tally, display, and announce the vote. <SUBJECT:CLERK> Mr. Speaker, on the question of adoption of the Brandenburg Amendment 2D, there are 51 aye votes and 52 nay votes. <SUBJECT:MR. SPEAKER> A sufficient number of members having not voted in the affirmative, the Brandenburg Amendment 2D is not adopted. There are further amendments-- <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> The weirdest maneuver of the day though, comes at the very end. After spending all day adding amendment after amendment, the Republicans introduce one final amendment. It comes at the very end. And it's rushed through on a procedural maneuver, without a record vote. Steve and all the Democrats scramble around to try and figure out what it says. <SUBJECT:WOMAN 3> What did they do here? <SUBJECT:MAN 4> What did they just do? <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> Even the press guy for the Republican party is caught off guard, has to head out to the floor to find out what it does. He comes back and tells us with a sheepish smile, basically it takes us back in time three hours. It returns Senate Bill 560 to its original language, stripping off every amendment the Republicans had added, undoing everything Republicans had spent the past three hours doing. Then the Republicans bring this new bill, which is now the same as the old bill, to a vote and it fails. And then the Republican majority leader, Rick Johnson, holds a press conference in which he blames the Democrats, the minority party, and the only ones who actually voted for the bill, for its failure. In the process, they made Steve Tobacman waste half his day on a huge turkey shoot that helped no one in his district. On the car ride home, we discussed the day. It wasn't all bad. He did manage to get some minor amendment, something to do with fraudulent notary publics, through a committee earlier in the day. He tells me that so far the best moment of his political career was the first, election night. It was early in the evening and returns were still coming in. He was standing in front of all supporters. And for the first time, he thought to himself it doesn't matter whether I win or lose. I ran a great campaign. I took no money. I spoke about issues that I believed in. I did everything exactly according to my beliefs. Driving home tonight after a long confusing day at his new job, as the rain poured symbolically down from the sky, that night feels very far away. <INTERVIEWER:ALEX BLUMBERG> Do you find it like, yesterday we drive around your district. And then we go to this like redlining meeting where it's very local. And then I come into that chamber, and then there's this like elaborate political game that's going on. It's hard to see the connection sometimes. It was hard for me. Is it sometimes hard for you? <SUBJECT:STEVE TOBOCMAN> Oh, absolutely. I mean today's activity was a bunch of pageantry. And it really does not in my mind impact the quality of life too greatly. And that I ask myself all the time. And I continually to ask myself. You might go out there and you find yourself advocating for the Todman bill or for pollution discharge permits fees. Or you can't really produce the results to end insurance redlining that you want to produce. And you feel, wow, I'm a total fraud up here. Here I am talking about something I truly, honestly believe in. And I'm doing everything I can. But at the end of the day, what kind of impact am I having? And is there a different thing I should be doing that my life? And is all of this worth that kind of trouble? <HOST:ALEX BLUMBERG> In Steve's freezer at home in Detroit, there's two foot long pork loin. It's been there for 10 months. It was a Christmas present sent to him by some lobbying group, right after he got elected. Steve's not sure who sent it to him or what it's supposed to get him to do, let alone why anyone thought sending a huge piece of non-kosher meat to a Jew before Christmas would help with anything. Or for that matter, why they ignored the obvious negative symbolism of sending pork to a politician. In the end, so much of politics is about hope. Somewhere there's a guy at some pork council putting mailing labels on boxes of meat, thinking maybe this will help. And for Steve, making any connection between what he does on a daily basis and what he actually wants to do requires a similar leap of faith. But the compromises he makes now will reward him later. And that somewhere down the line, performances like the one today in Lansing will do some good for someone back in Detroit. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Alex Blumberg. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Act 3, Zero Divided by Zero Is Still Zero. This is a story of somebody trying out a new theory on how to run her life. Specifically, how to handle money. It's an excerpt from the book Random Family, in which a reporter named Adrian Nicole LeBlanc spent over 10 years following some people who were living in the Bronx. One of the people is Coco, who is in her early 20s at this point in the story, in this excerpt. She has kids. She's on welfare. And at this point in Coco's story, she's living in a church-run residence called Thorpe House, trying to get her life together with the help of the nuns. Actress Liza Colon-Zayas reads the excerpt. <HOST:LISA COLONZEAS> Coco was eager to devise a plan for her future. Coco responded most enthusiastically to the workshops on money and budgeting. Every two weeks, she received $125 from welfare, by which time she was often $110 in debt. The Thorpe House covered utilities and rent. Coca hoped the budgeting workshops would teach her how to stop having to struggle-- a problem for which she blamed herself. The day checks arrived was pickup day. After she picked up, Coco immediately accounted for one top priority-- People I Owe  Money To. She always owed someone something-- $8 to Thorpe for change for washing, $6 to a neighbor for food, $15 to Dayland, a drug dealer from around her mother's way, who had lent her $200 the previous Christmas when she had no money for gifts. Coco earmarked the cash by writing the names, "Dayland's" "Sheila's"-- on the actual bills. She also deducted for subway tokens to get to appointments and put money aside for a cab in case of emergency. It wasn't unusual for her to have $5 left, which she then had to stretch for the next two weeks. She usually owed someone food stamps. Luckily, Coco's girls were under five and still qualified for WIC-- Women, Infants, and Children-- a supplemental food program for specified items-- eggs, cereal, and most preciously, milk. What remained of the money went to clothes for the girls and necessary toiletries. Children's looks reflected the quality of mothering. Sloppiness and dirt were physical evidence of failure, of poverty winning its battle against you. Coco would keep the girls indoors rather than let them look busted-up outside. She spent hours on their hair, twisting and tugging, braiding and curling, liberally applying Vaseline. When she was done, she'd briskly rub her palms together and wipe down each daughter's face. Vaseline also kept their skin from getting patchy. "I want them to perfect. They are so beautiful," Coco said. Weeks ahead of time, Coco estimated the price of clothes she wanted for her girls, including the tax. As soon as she possibly could, she'd make a deposit and put them on layaway. But budgeting didn't mitigate one of Coco's greatest problems-- everyone around her also needed, and Coco didn't know how to refuse. Sometimes Coco would spend down her money just so she could be the one to use it, allowing her to maintain her integrity. That way if someone asked her for money, she could honestly tell them no, she didn't have it. The cash had to stretch further with Coco's boyfriend Cesar jailed. He needed winter boots, a coat, socks, towels, and sheets, and commissary money for his hygiene and stamps. Then he'd ask for extra things like a door-size reproduction of his favorite photograph of their daughter Mercedes with her hair in Shirley Temple curls. Coco didn't know how to tell him no. "The welfare money, that's the girls'. It belongs to the girls, not him," she would say, but only to herself. Coco's sister, Iris, however, knew how to take care of business. Her method was a stern personality. She could ward off potential borrowers with one stony look. Coco couldn't live like that. Coco was too open. Even if she avoided being a bank for near strangers, she ended up as the neighborhood grocery store. People would be knocking at all hours of the day and night, "Coco, you got this? Coco, you got that?'" Coco's Thorpe House case worker, Sister Christine, worried about Coco's generosity. You either made your way by hardening up, like Iris, or you stayed stuck. Coco didn't see a choice. Coco couldn't ignore the people she cared for, which is why everyone turned to her first for help. The word that came to Sister Christine's mind whenever she thought of Coco was enmeshed. Coco would have said she had heart. One day, Coco and Iris went shopping. Although Coco had figured out her budget, she deferred to Iris, who she considered a financial whiz. Iris was the only person Coco knew who actually survived on her welfare benefits. "I'm going to give you my list of people I owe and you have to divide it up," Coco told her. At Youngland, Iris exchanged the $12.99 jeans Coco had put on layaway for a similar style Iris found for half the price. Coco would have never had the defiance to ignore the clerk's snooty look. Iris brought her to Big R Food Warehouse and suggested Coco buy the enormous packs of chicken and pork chops. Iris divided them into smaller portions and froze them separately. Coco often forgot to defrost meat in enough time for dinner. Iris had her children's school clothes pressed and laid on a chair the night before. Coco was constantly rummaging around for a hair brush or a matching sock. Coco knew she couldn't replicate Iris's strict adherence to order, but she longed for her girls to sleep in rooms like Iris's rooms. "They for beautiful people," Coco said. In her niece's bedroom, everything matched-- curtains, and bedspreads, and sheets. But Coco's pride in her sister's way was mixed with concern. The rigidity of Iris's approach to her predicament generated its own problems. Iris lived in a housing project, where it was dangerous to take the elevators too early in the morning, or late at night, alone. She rarely ventured anywhere without her husband, Armando-- even to visit family. And the toll of their vigilance could be seen in Armando's anxious eyes or the grim set of Iris's jaw. Mainly, though, it was Iris's unhappiness that upset Coco. The family anxiety projected an unspoken, unappealing truth-- that even living right, which was what Coco called it, was just another precarious hold. Poverty pulled everybody down. Coco loosened her body to minimize the impact of the fall. Iris and Armando froze, and the chill stiffened their kids, as well. Even indoors, when Armando planted himself in his favorite chair, he gripped the arms. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Liza Colon-Zayas, reading from Adrian Nicole LeBlanc's amazing book, Random Family. <HOST:IRA GLASS> Our program was produced today by Starlee Kine and myself, with Alex Bloomberg, Diane Cook, and Wendy Dorr. Our senior producer is Julie Snyder. Production help from Todd Bachmann and Stacey Tiderington. This is our last show with our intern Stacey Tiderington. She has faced down some very fierce deadlines with us. We wish her the best. [ACKNOWLEDGMENTS] This American Life is distributed by Public Radio International. [FUNDING CREDITS] WBEZ management oversight by Torey Malatia, who proves that he is a true Chicagoan every November when he calls us in and declares, <HOST:JACK HITT> So let's rig an election. <HOST:IRA GLASS> I'm Ira Glass. Back next week with more stories of This American Life. <HOST:ANNOUNCER> PRI, Public Radio International. 